Prioritization, Delegation, andAssignmentPractice Exercises for the NCLEX®ExaminationFOURTH EDITIONLinda A. LaCharity, PhD, RNFormerly, Accelerated Program Director, Assistant Professor, College of Nursing,University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OhioCandice K. Kumagai, MSN, RNFormerly, Instructor in Clinical Nursing, School of Nursing, University of Texas atAustin, Austin, TexasBarbara Bartz, MN, ARNPFormerly, Nursing Instructor, Yakima Valley Community College, Yakima,WashingtonWith an introduction byRuth Hansten, PhD, MBA, BSN, RN,FACHE2Principal, Hansten Healthcare PLLC, Santa Rosa, California3Table of ContentsCover imageTitle pageCopyrightContributors and ReviewersPrefaceTo faculty and other usersTo studentsAcknowledgmentsPart 1: IntroductionIntroductionOutcomes focusDefinition of termsAssignment processDelegation and assignment: the five rightsPractice based on research evidencePrinciples for implementation of prioritization, delegation, and assignmentPart 2: Prioritization, Delegation, and Assignment inCommon Health ScenariosChapter 1: PainQuestions4Answer KeyChapter 2: CancerQuestionsAnswer KeyChapter 3: Immunologic ProblemsQuestionsAnswer KeyChapter 4: Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Balance ProblemsQuestionsAnswer KeyChapter 5: Safety and Infection ControlQuestionsAnswer KeyChapter 6: Respiratory ProblemsQuestionsAnswer KeyChapter 7: Cardiovascular ProblemsQuestionsAnswer KeyChapter 8: Hematologic ProblemsQuestionsAnswer KeyChapter 9: Neurologic ProblemsQuestionsAnswer Key5Chapter 10: Visual and Auditory ProblemsQuestionsAnswer KeyChapter 11: Musculoskeletal ProblemsQuestionsAnswer KeyChapter 12: Gastrointestinal and Nutritional ProblemsQuestionsAnswer KeyChapter 13: Diabetes MellitusQuestionsAnswer KeyChapter 14: Other Endocrine ProblemsQuestionsAnswer KeyChapter 15: Integumentary ProblemsQuestionsAnswer KeyChapter 16: Renal and Urinary ProblemsQuestionsAnswer KeyChapter 17: Reproductive ProblemsQuestionsAnswer KeyChapter 18: Problems in Pregnancy and ChildbearingQuestions6Answer KeyChapter 19: Pediatric ProblemsQuestionsAnswer KeyChapter 20: PharmacologyQuestionsAnswer KeyChapter 21: Emergencies and DisastersQuestionsAnswer KeyChapter 22: Psychiatric–Mental Health ProblemsQuestionsAnswer KeyPart 3: Prioritization, Delegation, and Assignment inComplex Health ScenariosCase study 1: Chest Pressure, Indigestion, and NauseaQuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 2: Dyspnea and Shortness of BreathQuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 3: Multiple Clients on a Medical-Surgical UnitQuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 4: Shortness of Breath, Edema, and Decreased Urine Output7QuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 5: Diabetic KetoacidosisQuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 6: Home HealthQuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 7: Spinal Cord InjuryQuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 8: Multiple Patients With Adrenal Gland DisordersQuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 9: Multiple Clients With Gastrointestinal ProblemsQuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 10: Multiple Patients With PainQuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 11: Multiple Clients With CancerQuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 12: Gastrointestinal BleedingQuestionsAnswer Key8Case study 13: Head and Leg Trauma and ShockQuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 14: Septic ShockQuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 15: Heart FailureQuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 16: Multiple Patients With Peripheral Vascular DiseaseQuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 17: Respiratory Difficulty After SurgeryQuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 18: Long-Term CareQuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 19: Pediatric Clients in Clinic and Acute Care SettingsQuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 20: Multiple Patients With Mental Health DisordersQuestionsAnswer KeyCase study 21: ChildbearingQuestions9Answer KeyIllustration CreditsChapter 1Chapter 2Chapter 7Chapter 10Chapter 11Chapter 12Chapter 13Chapter 14Chapter 15Chapter 19Chapter 21Case Study 5Case Study 13Case Study 1410Copyright3251 Riverport LaneSt. Louis, Missouri 63043PRIORITIZATION, DELEGATION, AND ASSIGNMENT: PRACTICEEXERCISES FOR THE NCLEX® EXAMINATION, FOURTH EDITIONISBN: 978-0-323-49828-9Copyright © 2019, Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Previous editions copyrighted 2014, 2011, and 2006.No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or byany means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or anyinformation storage and retrieval system, without permission in writing fromthe publisher. Details on how to seek permission, further information about thePublisher’s permissions policies and our arrangements with organizations suchas the Copyright Clearance Center and the Copyright Licensing Agency, can befound at our website: www.elsevier.com/permissions.This book and the individual contributions contained in it are protected undercopyright by the Publisher (other than as may be noted herein).NoticesPractitioners and researchers must always rely on their own experience andknowledge in evaluating and using any information, methods, compounds orexperiments described herein. Because of rapid advances in the medicalsciences, in particular, independent verification of diagnoses and drug dosagesshould be made. To the fullest extent of the law, no responsibility is assumed byElsevier, authors, editors or contributors for any injury and/or damage topersons or property as a matter of products liability, negligence or otherwise, orfrom any use or operation of any methods, products, instructions, or ideascontained in the material herein.Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data11Names: LaCharity, Linda A., author. | Kumagai, Candice K., author. | Bartz,Barbara, author.Title: Prioritization, delegation, and assignment : practice exercises for theNCLEX examination / Linda A. LaCharity, Candice K. Kumagai, Barbara Bartz ;with an introduction by Ruth Hansten.Description: 4th edition. | St. Louis, Missouri : Elsevier Inc., [2019] |Includes bibliographical references.Identifiers: LCCN 2017052329 (print) | LCCN 2017053241 (ebook) | ISBN9780323498272 (Ebook) | ISBN 9780323498289 (pbk. : alk. paper)Subjects: | MESH: Nursing Care--organization & administration | Delegation,Professional | Nurse's Role | Decision Making | Examination Questions |Case ReportsClassification: LCC RT55 (ebook) | LCC RT55 (print) | NLM WY 18.2 | DDC610.73076--dc23LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2017052329Executive Content Strategist: Lee HendersonContent Development Manager: Lisa NewtonAssociate Content Development Specialist: Laurel SheaPublishing Services Manager: Deepthi UnniProject Manager: Manchu MohanDesign Direction: Margaret ReidPrinted in ChinaLast digit is the print number: 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 112Contributors and ReviewersCONTRIBUTORSMartha Barry, MS, APN, RN, CNM Certified Nurse Midwife OB FacultyPractice Advocate Medical Group Chicago, Illinois Adjunct Clinical InstructorCollege of Nursing University of Illinois at Chicago Chicago, IllinoisMary Tedesco-Schneck, PhD Assistant Professor School of NursingUniversity of Maine Orono, MaineNURSING FACULTY REVIEWERSSophia Beydoun, MSN, RN Nursing Instructor Health Sciences DivisionHenry Ford College Dearborn, MichiganDiane Lynn Cooper-McLean, MSN, BSN, RN Department of Allied HealthNursing Faulkner State Community College Bay Minette, AlabamaLaura M. Dechant, MSN, APRN, CCRN, CCNS-BC Clinical Nurse SpecialistDepartment of Heart, Vascular, and Interventional Services Christiana CareHealth System Newark, DelawareKathleen Sanders Jordan, DNP, MS, FNP-BC, ENP-BC, SANE-P ClinicalAssistant Professor School of Nursing The University of North Carolina atCharlotte Nurse Practitioner Emergency Department Mid-Atlantic MedicineAssociates Charlotte, North CarolinaKari Ksar, MS, RN, CPNP Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Division of PediatricGastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition Lucile Packard Children’sHospital at Stanford Palo Alto, CaliforniaJudi Kuric, DNP, ACNP-BC, ACNPC, CNRN, SCRN Assistant ProfessorDepartment of Nursing University of Southern Indiana Acute Care NursePractitioner Kentuckiana Neurosurgery Evansville, IndianaMartha E. Langhorne, MSN, RN, FNP, AOCN Nurse PractitionerDepartment of Gastroenterology Binghamton Gastroenterology, United HealthServices Hospitals Binghamton, New YorkCasey L. Norris, MSN, RN, PCNS-BC Clinical Assistant Professor13Department of Nursing The University of Alabama in Huntsville Huntsville,AlabamaCharles D. Chad Rogers, MSN, RN Associate Professor of NursingDepartment of Nursing Morehead State University Morehead, KentuckyJenny Lynn Sauls, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE Professor and Director Departmentof Nursing Middle Tennessee State University Murfreesboro, TennesseeJane Tyerman, PhD, MScN, BScN, BA, RN Lecturer Fleming School ofNursing Trent University Peterborough Ontario, CanadaSTUDENT REVIEWERSSara Allen Lincoln Land Community College Springfield, Illinois RegisteredNurse Memorial Medical Center Springfield, IllinoisRebecca Patrick Lincoln Land Community College Springfield, Illinois ERProcedural Technician HSHS St. John’s Hospital Springfield, Illinois14PrefaceLinda A. LaCharity; Candice K. Kumagai; Barbara BartzPrioritization, Delegation, and Assignment: Practice Exercises for the NCLEX®Examination has evolved since its first edition from a medical-surgical nursing–focused test preparation workbook to a resource that spans general nursingknowledge while emphasizing management of care to assist students inpreparing for the NCLEX® Examination. A second and equally importantpurpose of the book is to assist students, novice nurses, and seasoned nurses inapplying concepts of prioritization, delegation, and assignment to nursingpractice in today’s patient care settings.15To faculty and other usersPatient care acuity continues to be higher than ever, while staffing shortagesremain very real. Nurses must use all available patient care personnel andresources competently and efficiently and be familiar with variations in statelaws governing the practice of nursing, as well as differences in scopes ofpractice and facility-specific job descriptions. Nurses must also be aware of thedifferent skill and experience levels of the health care providers with whomthey work on a daily basis. Which nursing actions can be assigned to anexperienced versus a new graduate RN or LPN/LVN? What forms of patientcare can the nurse delegate to unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)? Whoshould help the postoperative patient who has had a total hip replacement getout of bed and ambulate to the bathroom? Can the nurse ask UAPs such asnursing assistants to check a patient’s oxygen saturation using pulse oximetryor check a diabetic patient’s glucose level? What reporting parameters shouldthe nurse give to an LPN/LVN who is monitoring a patient after cardiaccatheterization or to the UAP checking patients’ vital signs? What patient careinterventions and actions should not be delegated by the nurse? The answers tothese and many other questions should be much clearer after completion of theexercises in this book.Exercises in this book range from simple to complex and use various patientcare scenarios. The purpose of the chapters and case studies is to encourage thestudent or new graduate nurse to conceptualize using the skills ofprioritization, delegation, and assignment in many different settings. Our goalis to make these concepts tangible to our readers.The questions are written in NCLEX® Examination format to help faculty asthey teach student nurses how to prepare for licensure examination. Thechapters and case studies focus on real and hypothetical patient care situationsto challenge nurses and nursing students to develop the skills necessary toapply these concepts in practice. The exercises are also useful to nurseeducators as they discuss, teach, and test their students and nurses forunderstanding and application of these concepts in nursing programs,examination preparations, and facility orientations. Correct answers, along within-depth rationales, are provided at the end of each chapter and case study tofacilitate the learning process. The faculty exercise keys include QSEN (Qualityand Safety Education for Nurses) categories, concepts, and cognitive levels foreach question, as well as IPEC (Interprofessional Education Collaborative)categories where appropriate. Additionally, 10 unfolding case studies inPowerPoint format are available on Evolve for use by faculty in the classroomsetting.16To studentsPrioritization, delegation, and assignment are essential concepts and skills fornursing practice. Our students and graduate nurses have repeatedly told us oftheir difficulties with the application of these principles when taking programexit and licensure examinations. Nurse managers have told us many times thatnovice nurses and even some experienced nurses lack the expertise toeffectively and safely practice these skills in real-world settings.Although several excellent resources deal with these issues, there is still aneed for a book that incorporates management of care concepts into real-worldpractice scenarios. Our goal in writing the fourth edition of Prioritization,Delegation, and Assignment: Practice Exercises for the NCLEX® Examination is toprovide a resource that challenges nursing students, as well as novice andexperienced nurses, to develop the knowledge and understanding necessary toeffectively apply these important nursing skills: examination preparation andreal-world practice. From the original focus on medical-surgical nursing,subsequent editions have expanded to include pediatrics, labor and delivery,psychiatric nursing, and long-term care as well as the role of the nurse in avariety of nonacute care settings. Additionally, we have made changes thatreflect the current focus on evidence-based best practices, fundamentals of safepractice, and expansion of diabetes care. For the fourth edition, we respondedto requests for more questions, especially about medications. New questions,including drug-related questions, have been added to each chapter, as well as anew pharmacology-focused chapter. We also added questions specific to theneeds of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ)community. New questions were added and revised throughout the book tobroaden comprehension of key concepts and knowledge areas and to updatecurrent knowledge levels.Each new copy of the book comes with a fully interactive version of the bookcontent, with scoring, on Evolve athttp://evolve.elsevier.com/LaCharity/prioritization. This interactive version ofthe book helps to simulate the experience of taking the NCLEX® Examination.Students can use this interactive option to create multiple different test versionsfor practice and self-assessment.17AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank the many people whose support and assistance madethe creation of the fourth edition of this book possible. Thanks to our families,colleagues, and friends for listening, reading, encouraging, and making sure wehad the time to research, write, and review this book. We truly appreciate theexpertise of our two contributing authors, Martha Barry (reproductive health)and Mary Tedesco-Schneck (pediatrics), who each contributed an excellentchapter and case study related to their areas of expertise. Special thanks to RuthHansten, whose expertise in the area of clinical prioritization, delegation, andassignment skills continues to keep us on track. Many thanks to the faculty andstudent reviewers, whose expertise helped us keep the scenarios accurate andrealistic. Finally, we wish to acknowledge our faculty, students, graduates, andreaders who have taken the time to keep in touch and let us know about theirneeds for additional assistance in developing the skills to practice the arts ofprioritization, delegation, and assignment.18PA R T 1Introduction19IntroductionRuth Hansten, PhD, MBA, BSN, RN, FACHE20Outcomes focusExpert nurses have discovered that the most successful method of approachingtheir practice is to maintain a laser-like focus on the outcomes that the patientsand their families want to achieve. To attempt to prioritize, delegate, or assigncare without understanding the patient's preferred results is like trying to puttogether a jigsaw puzzle without the top of the puzzle box that shows thepuzzle picture. Not only does the puzzle player pick up random pieces thatdon’t fit well together, wasting time and increasing frustration, but also theprocess of puzzle assembly is fraught with inefficiencies and wrong choices. Inthe same way, a nurse who scurries haphazardly without a plan, unsure ofwhat could be the most important, lifesaving task to be done first, or whichperson should do which tasks for this group of patients, is not fulfilling his orher potential to be a channel for healing.Let's visit a change-of-shift report in which a group of nurses receivesinformation about two patients whose blood pressure is plummeting at thesame rate. How would one determine which nurse would be best to assign tocare for these patients, which patient needs to be seen first, and which taskscould be delegated to assistive personnel, if none of the nurses is aware of eachpatient's preferred outcomes? Patient A is a young mother who has beenreceiving chemotherapy for breast cancer; she has been admitted this shiftbecause of dehydration from uncontrolled emesis. She is expecting to regain hernormally robust good health and watch her children graduate from college.Everyone on the health care team would concur with her long-term goals.Patient Z is an elderly gentleman, 92 years of age, whose wife recently diedfrom complications of repeated cerebrovascular events and dementia.Yesterday while in the emergency department (ED), he was given the diagnosisof acute myocardial infarction and preexisting severe heart failure. He wouldlike to die and join his wife, has requested a “do not resuscitate” (DNR) order,and is awaiting transfer to a hospice. These two patients share critical clinicaldata but require widely different prioritization, delegation, and assignment. Asavvy charge RN would make the obvious decisions: to assign the most skilledRN to the young mother and to ask assistive personnel to function in asupportive role to the primary care RN.The elderly gentleman needs palliative care and would be best cared for byan RN and care team with excellent people skills. Even a novice nursingassistant could be delegated tasks to help keep Mr. Z and his familycomfortable and emotionally supported. The big picture on the puzzle box forthese two patients ranges from long-term “robust good health” requiringimmediate emergency assessment and treatment to “a supported andcomfortable death” requiring timely palliative care, including supportiveemotional and physical care. Without envisioning these patients’ pictures andknowing their preferred outcomes, the RNs cannot prioritize, delegate, orassign appropriately.There are many times in nursing practice, however, when correct choices are21not so apparent. Patients in all care settings today are often complex, and manyhave preexisting comorbidities that stump expert practitioners and clinicalspecialists planning their care. Care delivery systems must flex on a moment'snotice as a unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) arrives in place of a scheduledLPN/LVN (licensed practical nurse/licensed vocational nurse) and agency, float,or traveling nurses fill vacancies, while new patients, waiting to be admitted,accumulate in the ED or wait to be transferred to another setting. Assistivepersonnel arrive with varying educational preparation and dissimilar levels ofmotivation and skill. Critical thinking and complex clinical judgment arerequired from the minute the shift begins until the nurse clocks out.In this book, the authors have filled an educational need for students andpracticing nurses who wish to hone their skills in prioritizing, assigning, anddelegating. The scenarios and patient problems presented in this workbook arepractical, challenging, and complex learning tools. Quality and SafetyEducation for Nurses (QSEN) competencies are incorporated into this chapterand throughout the questions to highlight patient- and family-centered care,quality and safety improvement, and teamwork and collaboration concepts andskills (QSEN Institute, 2014). Patient stories will stimulate thought anddiscussion and help polish the higher-order intellectual skills necessary topractice as a successful, safe, and effective nurse. The Core Competencies forInterprofessional Collaborative Practice from Interprofessional EducationCollaborative (IPEC) are applied to the questions in this book as appropriate(Interprofessional Education Collaborative, 2016, https://ipecollaborative.org).Domains include (1) Values/Ethics, (2) Roles/Responsibilities, (3)Interprofessional Communication, and (4) Teams/Teamwork (IPEC, 2016).22Definition of termsThe intellectual functions of prioritization, delegation, and assignment engagethe nurse in projecting into the future from the present state. Thinking aboutwhat impact might occur if competing decisions are chosen, weighing options,and making split-second decisions, given the available data, is not an easyprocess. Unless resources in terms of staffing, budget, time, or supplies areunlimited, nurses must relentlessly focus on choosing which issues or concernsmust take precedence.PrioritizationPrioritizing is defined as “deciding which needs or problems requireimmediate action and which ones could tolerate a delay in action until a latertime because they are not urgent” (Silvestri, 2017). Prioritization in a clinicalsetting is a process that includes envisioning clearly patient outcomes but alsoincludes predicting possible problems if another task is performed first. Onealso must weigh potential future events if the task is not completed, the time itwould take to accomplish it, and the relationship of the tasks and outcomes.New nurses often struggle with prioritization because they have not yet workedwith typical patient progressions through care pathways and have notexperienced the complications that may emerge in association with a particularclinical condition. In short, knowing the patient's purpose for care, currentclinical picture, and picture of the outcome or result is necessary to be able toplan priorities. The part played by each team member is designated as the RNassigns or delegates. The “four Ps”—purpose, picture, plan, and part—becomea guidepost for appropriately navigating these processes (Hansten, 2008a, 2011,2014b; Hansten and Jackson, 2009). The four Ps will be referred to throughoutthis introduction because these concepts are the framework on which RNs basedecisions about supporting patients and families toward their preferredoutcomes, whether RNs provide the care themselves or work closely withassistive team members.Prioritization includes evaluating and weighing each competing task orprocess using the following criteria (Hansten and Jackson, 2009, pp. 194–196):• Is it life threatening or potentially life threatening if the task is not done?Would another patient be endangered if this task is done now or the task isleft for later?• Is this task or process essential to patient or staff safety?• Is this task or process essential to the medical or nursing plan of care?In each case, an understanding of the overall patient goals and the contextand setting is essential.In her book on critical thinking and clinical judgment, Rosalinda Alfaro-Lefevre (2017) suggests three levels of priority setting:1. The first level is airway, breathing, cardiac status and circulation, and vitalsigns and lab values that could be life threatening (“ABCs plus V and L”).232. The second level is immediately subsequent to the first level and includesconcerns such as mental status changes, untreated medical issues, acutepain, acute elimination problems, and imminent risks.3. The third level is health problems other than those at the first two levels,such as more long-term issues in health education, rest, coping, and so on(p. 171).Maslow's hierarchy of needs can be used to prioritize from the most crucialsurvival needs to needs related to safety and security, affiliation (love,relationships), self-esteem, and self-actualization (Alfaro-Lefevre, 2017, p. 170).Delegation and AssignmentThe official definitions of assignment have been altered through ongoingdiscussion among nursing leaders, and terminology distinctions such asobservation versus assessment, critical thinking versus clinical reasoning, anddelegation versus assignment continue to be contentious as nursing leadersattempt to describe complex thinking processes that occur in various levels ofnursing practice. Historically, the definition of assignment was “designatingnursing activities to be performed by another nurse or assistive personnelthat are consistent with his/her scope of practice (licensed person) or roledescription (unlicensed person)” (National Council of State Boards of Nursing[NCSBN], 2004). In 2016, the NCSBN published the results of two expert panelsto clarify that assignment includes “the routine care, activities, and proceduresthat are within the authorized scope of practice of the RN or LPN/LVN or partof the routine functions of the UAP (Unlicensed Assistive Personnel) . . . thatare included in the coursework taught in the delegatee's basic educationalprogram” (NCSBN, 2016b, p. 6-7). Delegation was defined as “transferring to acompetent individual the authority to perform a selected nursing task in aselected situation” (NCSBN, 1995). This definition of delegation remains thecurrent definition for purposes of this book. Both the American NursesAssociation (ANA) and the NCSBN describe delegation as “the process for anurse to direct another person to perform nursing tasks and activities.” TheANA specifies that delegation is a transfer of responsibility rather thanauthority (ANA and NCSBN, 2006, p. 1).Some state boards have argued that “assignment” is the process of directing anursing assistant to perform a task such as taking blood pressure, a task onwhich nursing assistants are tested in the certified nursing assistantexamination and that would commonly appear in a job description. Otherscontend that all nursing care is a part of the RN scope of practice and thereforethat such a task would be “delegated” rather than “assigned.” Other nursingleaders argue that only when a task is clearly within the RN's scope of practice,and not included in the role of the assistive personnel, is the task delegated. In2006, the ANA and the NCSBN collaborated in their Joint Statement onDelegation and altered the definition of assignment to “describes thedistribution of work that each staff member is responsible for during a givenshift or work period” (ANA and NCSBN, 2006, p. 1). This “work plan”24terminology is the definition of assignment used in this workbook, and itconnotes the nursing leadership role of human resources deployment in amanner that most wisely promotes the patient's and family's preferredoutcome.Although states vary in their definitions of the functions and processes inprofessional nursing practice, including that of delegation, the authors use theNCSBN definition, including the caveat present in the sentence following thedefinition: delegation is “transferring to a competent individual the authority toperform a selected nursing task in a selected situation. The nurse retains theaccountability for the delegation” (NCSBN, 1995, p. 2). Assignments are workplans that would include tasks the delegatee would have been trained to do intheir basic educational program; the nurse “assigns” or distributes work andalso “delegates” nursing care as she or he works through others. In advancedUAP roles such as when certified medication aides are taught to administermedications or when certified medical assistants give injections, the NCSBN(2016) asserts that because of the extensive responsibilities involved, theemployers and nurse leaders in the settings where certified medication aidesare employed, such as ambulatory care, skilled nursing homes, or home healthsettings, should regard these procedures as being delegated and UAPcompetencies must be assured (NCSBN, 2016b, p. 7). However, thisdifferentiation between delegation and assignment is perplexing to nurses.Because both processes are identical in terms of the actions and thinkingprocesses of the RN from a practical standpoint, the distinctions are confusingand irrelevant for the purposes of this text. In its seminal 2005 delegation WhitePaper, the NCSBN states that “using the verb assign in this manner [as in theabove 2004 definition] is a variation of delegation. Since the process for both isthe same, this Paper uses the verb ‘delegate’ to describe the process of workingthrough others and the noun ‘assignment’ to describe what a person is directedto do (reflecting the common usage of language among nurses working inclinical settings)” (NCSBN, 2005, p. 174). In all cases, whether assigning ordelegating, the RN is accountable for the total nursing care of the patient andfor making choices about which competent person is permitted to perform eachtask successfully.Delegation and SupervisionThe definition of delegation alone offers some important clues to nursingpractice and to the composition of an effective patient care team. The personwho makes the decision to ask a person to do something (a task or assignment)must know that the chosen person is competent to perform that task. The RNselects the particular task, given his or her knowledge of the individual patient'scondition and that particular circumstance. Because of the nurse's preparation,knowledge, and skill, the RN chooses to render judgments of this kind andstands by the choices made. According to licensure and statute, the nurse isobligated to delegate based on the unique situation, patients, and personnelinvolved and to provide ongoing follow-up.25SupervisionWhenever a nurse delegates, he or she must also supervise. Supervision isdefined by the NCSBN as “the provision of guidance and direction, oversight,evaluation and follow up by the licensed nurse for accomplishment of anursing task delegated to nursing assistive personnel” (NCSBN, 2005, p. 194).The act of delegating is just the beginning of the RN's responsibility. As for theaccountability of the delegatees (or persons given the task duty), theseindividuals are accountable for “[accepting] the delegation and for their ownactions in carrying out the act” (NCSBN, 1995, p. 3). For example, nursingassistants who are unprepared or untrained to complete a task should say asmuch when asked and can then decline to perform that particular duty. In sucha situation, the RN would determine whether to allocate time to train theassistive personnel and review the skill as it is learned, to delegate the task toanother competent person, to do it herself or himself, or to make arrangementsfor later skill training. The ANA defines supervision as “the provision ofguidance or direction, guiding, and influencing the outcome of an individual'sperformance of a task” (ANA and NCSBN, 2006, p. 1). In both definitions, it isclear that the RN's job continues throughout the performance and results of taskcompletion.Scope of Practice for RNs, LPNs/LVNs, and UAPsHeretofore this text has discussed national recommendations for definitions.National trends suggest that nursing is moving toward standardized licensurethrough mutual recognition compacts and multistate licensure, and as of July2016, 25 states had adopted the nurse license compact allowing a nurse in amember state to possess one state's license and practice in another memberstate, with six states pending (NCSBN, 2016c). Standardized and multistatelicensure supports electronic practice and promotes improved practiceflexibility. However, each RN must know his or her own state's regulations.Except for the 25 licensure compact participants, definitions still differ fromstate to state, as do regulations about the tasks that nursing assistants or otherassistive personnel are allowed to perform in various settings.For example, UAPs are delegated tasks for which they have been trained andthat they are currently competent to perform for stable patients inuncomplicated circumstances; these are routine, simple, repetitive, commonactivities not requiring nursing judgment, for example, activities of daily living,hygiene, feeding, and ambulation. Some states have generated statutes and/orrules that list specific tasks that can or cannot be delegated (NCSBN, 2005, pp.178–179). However, trends indicate that more tasks will be delegated asresearch supports such delegation through evidence of positive outcomes.Acute care hospitals nursing assistants have not historically been authorized toadminister medications. In some states, specially certified medication assistantsadminister oral medications in the community (group homes) and in somelong-term care facilities, although there is substantial variability in state-26designated CNA duties (McMullen et al., 2015). More states are employingspecially trained nursing assistants as CMAs (Certified Medication Assistants)or MA-Cs (Medication Assistants-Certified) to administer routine,nonparenteral medications in long-term care or community settings withtraining as recommended by the NCSBN's Model Curriculum (NCSBN, 2007).In Washington State in 2008, a process was initiated to alter the statute andrelated administrative codes to allow trained nursing assistants in home orcommunity-based settings, such as boarding homes and adult family homes, toadminister insulin if the patient is an appropriate candidate (in a stable andpredictable condition) and if the nursing assistant has been appropriatelytrained and supervised for the first 4 weeks of performing this task (RevisedCode of Washington, 2012). Consistency of state regulation of UAP medicationadministration in residential care and adult day-care settings has been stated tobe inadequate to ensure RN oversight of assistive personnel (Carder andO’Keeffe, 2016). This research finding should serve as a caution for allpracticing in these settings.In all states, nursing judgment is used to delegate tasks that fall within, butnever exceed, the nurse's legal scope of practice, and an RN always makesdecisions based on the individual patient situation. An RN may decide not todelegate the task of feeding a patient if the patient is dysphagic and the nursingassistant is not familiar with feeding techniques. A “Lessons Learned fromLitigation” article in the American Journal of Nursing in May 2014 describes thehazards of improper RN assignment, delegation, and supervision of patientfeeding, resulting in a patient's death and licensure sanctions (Brous, 2014).The scope of practice for LPNs or LVNs also differs from state to state and iscontinually evolving. For example, in Texas and Colorado, LPNs have beenprohibited from delegating nursing tasks; only RNs are allowed to delegate(Hansten and Jackson, 2009, p. 91). In 23 states in 2004 and in 28 states in 2005,LPNs were allowed to delegate, and in 33 states, they were allowed to assign(NCSBN, 2005, pp. 112, 178–179). Although practicing nurses know that LPNsoften review a patient's condition and perform data-gathering tasks such asobservation and auscultation, RNs remain accountable for the total assessmentof a patient, including synthesis and analysis of reported and reviewedinformation to lead care planning based on the nursing diagnosis. A largemajority of 48 state board respondents (46 to 2) indicated that LPNs/LVNs werenot allowed to develop plans of care independently, but many (14) commentedthat the LPN could contribute to the care plan (NCSBN, 2005, pp. 108–109). Intheir periodic review of actual practice by recent PN (practical nurse) testparticipants employed in hospitals, long-term care, and home health, in 2006the NCSBN discovered that more than three fourths of recent graduatescontributed to development of the plan of care, almost 90% took verbal ortelephone orders from physicians, approximately half administered ormonitored IV piggyback medications, about 40% inserted nasogastric tubes,and about 30% had monitored blood transfusions (NCSBN, 2008, pp. 30–38). Inan updated 2009 NCSBN survey of 1400 practicing LPNs, 85.4% assigned clientcare or related tasks to other LPNs or assistive personnel, and 81.2% supervised27or evaluated activities of assistive personnel, with 65.8% working in long-termcare settings (NCSBN, 2010, p. 35). IV therapy and administration of bloodproducts or total parenteral nutrition (TPN) by LPNs/LVNs also vary widely. A2015 survey showed that although labor and delivery knowledge was deemedby LPN/LVNs, supervisors, and educators as one of the least importantconcepts to learn (possibly because of infrequent use of LPN/LVNs in laborareas), blood product transfusion topics were considered vital for basicLPN/LPN education (NCSBN, 2016a, pp. 24–26). Even in states whereregulations allow LPNs/LVNs to administer blood products, a given health careorganization's policies or job descriptions may limit practice and placeadditional safeguards because of the life-threatening risk involved in theadministration of blood products and other medications. The RN must reviewthe agency's job descriptions as well as the state regulations because either arechangeable.LPN/LVN practice continues to evolve, and in any state, tasks to support theassessment, planning, intervention, and evaluation phases of the nursingprocess can be allocated. When it is clear that a task could possibly be delegatedto a skilled delegatee according to your state's scope of practice rules and is notprohibited by the organization policies, the principles of delegation and/orassignment remain the same. The totality of the nursing process remains theresponsibility of the RN. Also, the total nursing care of the patient restssquarely on the RN's shoulders, no matter which competent and skilledindividual is asked to perform care activities. To obtain more information aboutthe statute and rules in a given state and to access decision trees and otherhelpful aides to delegation and supervision, visit the NCSBN website athttp://www.ncsbn.org. The state practice act for each state is linked at that site.28Assignment processIn current hospital environments, the process of assigning or creating a workplan is dependent on who is available, present, and accounted for and whattheir roles and competencies are for each shift. Assignment “describes thedistribution of work that each staff member is responsible for during a givenshift or work period” (ANA and NCSBN, 2006, p. 1). Classical care deliverymodels once known as total patient care have been transformed into acombination of team, functional, and primary care nursing, depending on theprojected patient outcomes, the present state, and the available staff.Assignments must be created with knowledge of the following issues (Hanstenand Jackson, 2009, pp. 207–208):• How complex is the patients’ required care?• What are the dynamics of patients’ status and their stability?• How complex is the assessment and ongoing evaluation?• What kind of infection control is necessary?• Are there any individual safety precautions?• Is there special technology involved in the care, and who is skilled in its use?• How much supervision and oversight will be needed based on the staff'snumbers and expertise?• How available are the supervising RNs?• How will the physical location of patients affect the time and availability ofcare?• Can continuity of care be maintained?• Are there any personal reasons to allocate duties for a particular patient, orare there nurse or patient preferences that should be taken into account?Factors such as staff difficulties with a particular diagnosis, patientpreferences for an employee's care on a previous admission, or a staffmember's need for a particular learning experience will be taken intoaccount.• Is there an acuity rating system that will help distribute care based on apoint or number system?For more information on care delivery modalities, refer to the texts byHansten and Jackson (2009) and Alfaro-LeFevre (2017) listed in the Referencessection. Whichever type of care delivery plan is chosen for each particular shiftor within your practice arena, the relationship with the patient and the resultsthat the patient wants to achieve must be foremost, followed by the placingtogether of the right pieces in the form of competent team members, to composethe complete picture (Hansten, 2005a, 2008a).29Delegation and assignment: the five rightsAs you contemplate the questions in this workbook, you can use mnemonicdevices to order your thinking process, such as the “five rights.” The right taskis assigned to the right person in the right circumstances. The RN then offersthe right direction and communication and the right supervision and evaluation(Hansten and Jackson, 2009, pp. 205–206; NCSBN, 1995, pp. 2–3, Hansten,2014a, p. 70; NCSBN, 2016b, p 8).Right CircumstancesRecall the importance of the context in clinical decision making. Not only dorules and regulations adjust based on the area of practice (i.e., home health care,acute care, long-term care), but patient conditions and the preferred patientresults must also be considered. If information is not available, a best judgmentmust be made. Often RNs must balance the need to know as much as possibleand the time available to obtain the information. The instability of patientsimmediately postoperatively or in the intensive care unit (ICU) means that astudent nurse will have to be closely supervised and partnered with anexperienced RN. The questions in this workbook give direction as to contextand offer hints to the circumstances.For example, in long-term care skilled nursing facilities, LPNs/LVNs oftenfunction as “team leaders” with ongoing care planning and oversight by asmaller number of on-site RNs. Some EDs use paramedics, who may beregulated by the state emergency system statutes, in different roles in hospitals.Medical clinics often employ “medical assistants” who function under thedirection and supervision of physicians, other providers, and RNs. Communitygroup homes, assisted living facilities, and other health care providers beyondacute care hospitals seek to create safe and effective care delivery systems forthe growing number of older adults. Whatever the setting or circumstance, thenurse is accountable to know the specific laws and regulations that apply.Right TaskReturning to the guideposts for navigating care, the patient's four Ps (purpose,picture, plan, and part), the right task is a task that, in the nurse's bestjudgment, is one that can be safely delegated for this patient, given the patient'scurrent condition (picture) and future preferred outcomes (purpose, picture), ifthe nurse has a competent individual to perform it. Although the RN maybelieve that he or she personally would be the best person to accomplish thistask, the nurse must prioritize the best use of his or her time given a myriad offactors. “What other tasks and processes must I do because I am the only RN onthis team? Which tasks can be delegated based on state regulations and mythorough knowledge of job descriptions here in this facility? How skilled arethe personnel working here today? Who else could be available to help if30necessary?”In its draft model language for nursing assistive personnel, the NCSBN listscriteria for determining nursing activities that can be delegated. The followingare recommended for the nurse's consideration. It should be kept in mind thatthe nursing process and nursing judgment cannot be delegated.• Knowledge and skills of the delegatee• Verification of clinical competence by the employer• Stability of the patient's condition• Service setting variables such as available resources (including the nurse'saccessibility) and methods of communication, complexity and frequency ofcare, and proximity and numbers of patients relative to staffAssistive personnel are not to be allocated the duties of “ongoing assessment,interpretation, or decision making that cannot be logically separated from theprocedures” (NCSBN, 2005, p. 197).Right PersonLicensure, Certification, and Role DescriptionOne of the most commonly voiced concerns during workshops with staff nursesacross the nation is, “How can I trust the delegatees?” Knowing the licensure,role, and preparation of each member of the team is the first step in determiningcompetency. What tasks does a PCT (patient care technician) perform in thisfacility? What is the role of an LPN/LVN? Are different levels of LPN/LVNdesignated here (LPN I or II)? Nearly 100 different titles for assistive personnelhave been developed in care settings across the country. To effectively assign ordelegate, the RN must know the role descriptions of co-workers as well as his orher own.Strengths and WeaknessesThe personal strengths and weaknesses of usual team members are no mystery.Their skills are discovered through practice, positive and negative experiences,and an ever-present but unreliable rumor mill. An expert RN helps create betterteam results by using strengths in assigning personnel to exploit their gifts. Themost compassionate team will work with the hospice patient and his or herfamily. The supervising nurse helps identify performance flaws and developsstaff by providing judicious use of learning assignments. For example, a novicenursing assistant can be partnered with an experienced oncology RN during theassistant's first experiences with a terminally ill patient.When working with students, float nurses, or other temporary personnel,nurses sometimes forget that the assigning RN has the duty to determinecompetency. Asking personnel about their previous experiences and about theirunderstanding of the work duties, as well as pairing them with a strong unitstaff member, is as essential as providing the ongoing support and supervisionneeded throughout the shift. If your mother were an ICU patient and her nursewere an inexperienced float from the rehabilitation unit, what level of31leadership and direction would that nurse need from an experienced ICU RN?Many hospitals delegate only tasks, a functional form of assignment, totemporary personnel who are unfamiliar with the clinical area.Right Direction and CommunicationNow that the right staff member is being delegated the right task for eachparticular situation and setting, team members must find out what they need todo and how the tasks must be done. Relaying instructions about the plan for theshift or even for a specific task is not as simple as it seems. Some RNs believethat a written assignment board provides enough information to proceedbecause “everyone knows his or her job,” but others spend copious amounts oftime giving overly detailed directions to bored staff. The “four Cs” of initialdirection will help clarify the salient points of this process (Hansten andJackson, 2009, pp. 287–288; 2012, pp. 299–300). Instructions and ongoingdirection must be clear, concise, correct, and complete.Clear communication is information that is understood by the listener. Anambiguous question such as: “Can you get the new patient?” is not helpfulwhen there are several new patients and returning surgical patients, and“getting” could mean transporting, admitting, or taking full responsibility forthe care of the patient. Asking the delegatee to restate the instructions and workplan can be helpful to determine whether the communication is clear.Concise statements are those that give enough but not too much additionalinformation. The student nurse who merely wants to know how to turn on thechemical strip analyzer machine does not need a full treatise on the transit ofpotassium and glucose through the cell membrane. Too much or irrelevantinformation confuses the listener and wastes precious time.Correct communication is that which is accurate and is aligned to rules,regulations, or job descriptions. Are the room number, patient name, and otheridentifiers correct? Are there two patients with similar last names? Can this taskbe delegated to this individual? Correct communication is not cloudy orconfusing (Hansten and Jackson, 2009, pp. 287–288; 2012, p. 299).Complete communication leaves no room for doubt on the part of supervisoror delegatees. Staff members often say, “I would do whatever the RNs want ifthey would just tell me what they want me to do and how to do it.” Incompletecommunication wins the top prize for creating team strife and substandardwork. Assuming that staff “know” what to do and how to do it, along withwhat information to report and when, creates havoc, rework, and frustration forpatients and staff alike. Each staff member should have in mind a clear map orplan for the day, what to do and why, and what and when to report to the teamleader. Parameters for reporting and the results that should be expected areoften left in the team leader's brain rather than being discussed and spelled outin sufficient detail. RNs are accountable for clear, concise, correct, and completeinitial and ongoing direction.32Right Supervision and EvaluationAfter prioritization, assignment, and delegation have been considered,determined, and communicated, the RN remains accountable for the total careof the patients throughout the tour of duty. Recall that the definition ofsupervision includes not only initial direction but also that “supervision is theactive process of directing, guiding, and influencing the outcome of anindividual's performance of a task. Similarly, NCSBN defines supervision as theprovision of guidance or direction, oversight, evaluation and follow-up by thelicensed nurse for the accomplishment of a delegated nursing task by assistivepersonnel” (ANA and NCSBN, 2006, p. 1). RNs may not actually perform eachtask of care, but they must oversee the ongoing progress and results obtained,reviewing staff performance. Evaluation of the care provided, and adequatedocumentation of the tasks and outcomes, must be included in this last of thefive rights. On a typical unit in an acute care facility, assisted living, or longtermcare setting, the RN can ensure optimal performance as the RN begins theshift by holding a short “second report” meeting with assistive personnel,outlining the day's plan and the plan for each patient, and giving initialdirection at that time. Subsequent short team update or “checkpoint” meetingsshould be held before and after breaks and meals and before the end of the shift(Hansten, 2005b, 2008a, 2008b). During each short update, feedback is oftenoffered, and plans are altered. The last checkpoint presents all team memberswith an opportunity to give feedback to one another using the step-by-stepfeedback process (Hansten, 2008a, pp. 79–84; Hansten and Jackson, 2012, pp.301–302). This step is often called the “debriefing” checkpoint or huddle, inwhich the team's processes are also examined. In ambulatory care settings, thischeckpoint may be toward the end of each patient's visit or the end of the shift;in home health care, these conversations are often conducted on a weekly basis.Questions such as, “What would you recommend I do differently if we workedtogether tomorrow on the same group of patients? What can we do better as ateam to help us navigate the patients toward their preferred results?” will helpthe team function more effectively in the future.1. The team member's input should be solicited first. “I noted that the vitalsigns for the first four patients aren’t yet on the electronic record. Do youknow what's been done?” rather than “WHY haven’t those vital signs beenrecorded yet?” At the end of the shift, the questions might be global, as in“How did we do today?” “What would you do differently if we had it todo over?” “What should I do differently tomorrow?”2. Credit should be given for all that has been accomplished. “Oh, so youhave the vital signs done, but they aren’t recorded? Great, I’m so glad theyare done so I can find out about Ms. Johnson's temperature before I call Dr.Smith.” “You did a fantastic job with cleaning Mr. Orange after hisincontinence episodes; his family is very appreciative of our respect for hisdignity.”3. Observations or concerns should be offered. “The vital signs are routinelyrecorded on the EMR [electronic medical record] before patients are sent33for surgery and procedures and before the doctor's round so that we cansee the big picture of patients’ progress before they leave the unit and tomake sure they are stable for their procedures.” Or, “I think I should haveassigned another RN to Ms. Apple. I had no idea that your motherrecently died of breast cancer.”4. The delegatee should be asked for ideas on how to resolve the issue.“What are your thoughts on how you could order your work to get thevital signs on the EMR before 8:30 am?” Or, “What would you like to dowith your work plan for tomorrow? Should we change Ms. Apple's team?”5. A course of action and plan for the future should be agreed upon. “Thatsounds great. Practice use of the handheld computers today before youleave, and that should resolve the issue. When we work togethertomorrow, let me know whether that resolves the time issue for recording;if not, we will go to another plan.” Or, “If you still feel that you want tostay with this assignment tomorrow after you’ve slept on it, we will keepit as is. If not, please let me know first thing tomorrow morning when youawaken so we can change all the assignments before the staff arrive.”34Practice based on research evidenceRationale for Maximizing Nursing LeadershipSkills at the Point of CareIf the skills presented in this book are used to save lives by providing careprioritized to attend to the most unstable patients first, optimally delegated tobe delivered by the right personnel, and assigned using appropriate languagewith the most motivational and conscientious supervisory follow-up, thenclinical outcomes should be optimal and work satisfaction should flourish. Asstated in a 2008 article in Nurse Leader, solid correlational research evidence islacking related to “the best use of personnel to multiply the RN's ability toremain vigilant over patient progress and avoid failures to rescue, but commonsense would advise that better delegation and supervision skills would preventerrors and omissions as well as unobserved patient decline” (Hansten, 2008b).In an era of value-based purchasing and health care reimbursement based onclinical results with linkages for care along the continuum from site to site, anRN's accountability has irrevocably moved beyond task orientation toleadership practices that ensure better outcomes for patients, families, andpopulations. The necessity of efficiency and effectiveness in health care meansthat RNs must delegate and supervise appropriately so that all tasks that can besafely assigned to UAPs are completed flawlessly. Patient safety experts havelinked interpersonal communication errors and teamwork communication gapsas major sources of medical errors while The Joint Commission associated theseas root causes of 70% or more of serious reportable events (Grant, 2016, p 11).Nurses are accountable for processes as well as outcomes measures so thatinsurers will reimburse health care organizations. If hospital-acquiredconditions occur, such as pressure ulcers, falls with injury, and some infections,reimbursement for the care of that condition will be negatively impacted.• Nurses spend from 10% to 25% of their shifts looking for other staffmembers (Tucker and Spear, 2006). Better initial direction and a plan forsupervision during the day decrease time wasted in attempting to connectwith team members. At one facility in the Midwest, shift hand-offs werereduced to 10 to 15 minutes per shift per RN as a result of a plannedapproach to initial direction and care planning, which thus saved each RN30 to 45 minutes per day (Hansten, 2008a, p. 34). Better use of nursing andUAP time can result in more time to care for patients, giving RNs theopportunity to teach patients self-care or to maintain functional status.• When nurses did not appropriately implement the five rights of delegationand supervision with assistive personnel, errors occurred that potentiallycould have been avoided with better RN leadership behaviors. About 14% oftask errors or care omissions related to teamwork were due to lack of RNdirection or communication, and approximately 12% of the issues stemmedfrom lack of supervision or follow-up (Standing, Anthony, and Hertz, 2001).35Errors can result in uncompensated conditions or readmissions; unhappypatients and providers; disgruntled health care purchasers; and a disloyal,anxious patient community.• Teamwork and job satisfaction have been found to be negatively correlatedwith over-delegation and a hierarchical relationship between nurses andassistive personnel (Kalisch and Begeny, 2005), but offering feedbackeffectively has been shown to improve team thinking and performance(Kozlowski and Ilgen, 2007). When staff in a long-term care facility wereable to connect their work with personal purposes and patient results, therewere a 23% increase in teamwork, a 10% jump in job satisfaction, a 17%increase in morale, and a $12,000 drop in absenteeism costs (Kinjerski andSkrypnek, 2008). Best practices for deployment of personnel include aconnection to patient outcomes, which can occur during initial direction anddebriefing supervision checkpoints.• Unplanned readmissions to acute care within 30 days of discharge are linkedto potential penalties and reduced reimbursement. Inadequate RN initialdirection and supervision of UAPs can lead to missed mobilization,hydration, and nutrition of patients, thereby discharging deconditionedpatients, and can be traced to ED visits and subsequent readmissions.Reimbursement bundling for specific care pathways such as total jointreplacements or acute exacerbation of COPD (chronic obstructivepulmonary disease) requires that team communication and RN supervisionof coworkers along the full continuum must be seamless from ambulatorycare to acute care, rehabilitation, and home settings.• As public quality transparency and competition for best value becomes thenorm, ineffective delegation has been a significant source of missed care,such as lack of care planning, lack of turning or ambulation, delayed ormissed nutrition, and lack of hygiene (Bittner et al., 2011; Kalisch, 2006).These care omissions can be contributing factors for the occurrence ofunreimbursed “never events” (events that should never occur) such aspressure ulcers and pneumonia, as well as prolonged lengths of stay. Othernurse-sensitive quality indicators such as catheter-associated urinary tractinfections (CAUTIs) could be correlated to omitted perineal hygiene andinattention to discontinuation of catheters. Useful models that linkdelegation with care omissions and ensuing care hazards such asthrombosis, pressure ulcers, constipation and infection, combined with aSwiss Cheese Safety Model showing defensive steps against health care–acquired conditions and errors through excellence in RN leadership can beaccessed in the August 2004 Nurse Leader athttps://doi.org/10.1016/j.mnl.2013.10.007 (Hansten, 2014a).Evidence does indicate that appropriate nursing judgment in prioritization,delegation, and supervision can save time and improve communication andthereby improve care, patient safety, clinical outcomes, and job satisfaction,potentially saving patient-days and absenteeism and recruitment costs. Patientsatisfaction, staff satisfaction, and clinical results decline when nursing care ispoor. Potential reimbursement is lost, patients and families suffer, and the36health of our communities decays when RNs do not assume the leadershipnecessary to work effectively with all team members (Bittner et al., 2011).37Principles for implementation ofprioritization, delegation, and assignmentReturn to our goalposts of the four Ps (purpose, picture, plan, and part) as aframework as you answer the questions in this workbook and further developyour own expertise and recall the following principles:• The RN should always start with the patient's and family's preferredoutcomes in mind. The RN is first clear about the patient's purpose foraccessing care and his or her picture for a successful outcome.• The RN should refer to the applicable state nursing practice statute and rulesas well as the organization's job descriptions for current information aboutroles and responsibilities of RNs, LPNs/LVNs, and UAPs. (These are theroles or the part that people play.)• Student nurses, novices, float nurses, and other infrequent workers alsorequire variable levels of supervision, guidance, or support. (The workers’abilities and roles become a piece of the plan [Hansten and Jackson, 2009,pp. 52–55].)• The RN is accountable for nursing judgment decisions and for ongoingsupervision of any care that is delegated or assigned.• The RN cannot delegate the nursing process (in particular the assessment,planning, and evaluation phases) or clinical judgment to a non-RN. Someinterventions or data-gathering activities may be delegated based on thecircumstances.• The RN must know as much as practical about the patients and theirconditions, as well as the skills and competency of team members, toprioritize, delegate, and assign. Decisions must be specificallyindividualized to the patient, the delegatees, and the situation.• In a clinical situation, everything is fluid and shifting. No priority,assignment, or delegation is written indelibly and cannot be altered. The RNin charge of a unit, a team, or one patient is accountable to choose the bestcourse to achieve the patient's and family's preferred results.Good luck in completing the workbook! The authors invite you to use thequestions as an exercise in assembling the pieces to the puzzle that will becomea picture of health-promoting practice.38ReferencesAlfaro-Lefevre R. Critical thinking, clinical reasoning, and clinical judgment: apractical approach. ed 6 St Louis: Saunders; 2017.American Nurses Association, National Council of State Boards ofNursing. Joint statement on delegation. retrieved May 31, 2012, from 2006.http://www.ncsbn.org/joint_statement/pdf.Bittner N., Gravlin G., Hansten R., Kalisch B. Unraveling care omissions. JNurs Adm. 2011;41(12):510–512.Brous E. Lessons learned from litigation: the case of Bernard Travaglini.Am J Nurs. (114):2014;68–70 5.Carder P.C., O’Keeffe J. State regulation of medication administration byunlicensed assistive personnel in residential care and adult day servicessettings. Res Gerontol Nurs. 2016;7:1–14.Grant V. Sharpening your legal IQ: safeguarding your license. Viewpoint.2016;38(3):10–12.Hansten R. Relationships and results: solid patient relationships canimprove clinical outcomes. Healthc Exec. 2005a;20(4):34–35.Hansten R. Relationship and results-oriented healthcare: evaluate thebasics. J Nurs Adm. 2005b;35(12):522–524.Hansten R. Leadership at the point of care: nursing delegation. 2011. retrievedMay 31, 2012, from http://www.MyFreeCE.com.Hansten R. Relationship and results oriented healthcare™ planning andimplementation manual. Port Ludlow, Wash: Hansten Healthcare PLLC;2008a.Hansten R. Why nurses still must learn to delegate. Nurse Leader.2008b;6(5):19–26.Hansten R., Jackson M. Clinical delegation skills: a handbook for professionalpractice. ed 4 Sudbury, Mass: Jones & Bartlett; 2009.Hansten R., Jackson M. Delegation in the clinical setting. In: Zerwekh J.,Claborn J., eds. Nursing today: transitions and trends. ed 7 St Louis:Elsevier; 2012.Hansten R. Coach as chief correlator of tasks to results through delegationskill and teamwork development. Nurse Leader. 2014a;12(4):69–73.Hansten R. The Master Coach Manual for the Relationship & Results OrientedHealthcare Program. Port Ludlow, Wash: Hansten Healthcare PLLC;2014b.Interprofessional Education Collaborative. Domain listing in CoreCompetencies Report. pp. 9–11. IPEC 2016, retrieved August 11, 2016,from https://ipecollaborative.org/uploads/IPEC-2016-Updated-Core-Competencies-Report__final_release_.PDFKalisch B. Missed nursing care. J Nurs Care Qual. 2006;21(4):306–313.Kalisch B., Begeny S. Improving nursing unit teamwork. J Nurs Adm.2005;35(12):550–556.Kinjerski V., Skrypnek B. The promise of spirit at work. J Gerontol Nurs.392008;34(10):17–25.Kozlowski S., Ilgen D. The science of team success. Sci Am Mind.2007;June-July:54–61.McMullen T.L., Resnick B., Chin-Hansen J., et al. Certified nurse aidescope of practice: state-by-state differences in allowable delegatedactivities. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2015;6(1):20–24.National Council of State Boards of Nursing: Delegation: concepts anddecision-making process, Issues December:1–4, 1995.National Council of State Boards of Nursing: NCSBN Model Nurse PracticeAct, 2004, Article III, Section 4C, retrieved August 8, 2005, fromhttp://www.ncsbn.org/regulation/nursing.National Council of State Boards of Nursing: Business book: NCSBN annualmeeting: mission possible: building a safer nursing workforce throughregulatory excellence, 2005, retrieved August 12, 2005, fromhttp://www.ncsbn.org/pdfs/V_Business_Book_Section_I.pdf.National Council of State Boards of Nursing: Medication assistant modelcurriculum, 2007, retrieved May 31, 2012, fromhttps://www.ncsbn.org/07_Final_MAC.pdf.National Council of State Boards of Nursing: Report of findings from the2006 LPN/VN practice analysis comparability of survey administrationmethods, Research Brief (Vol 33), Chicago, 2008, The Council.National Council of State Boards of Nursing: 2009 LPN/VN practiceanalysis: linking the NCLEX-PN® examination to practice, March 2010,Research Brief (Vol 44), retrieved May 31, 2012, fromhttps://www.ncsbn.org/10_LPN_VN_PracticeAnalysis_Vol44_web.pdf.National Council of State Boards of Nursing. 2016. Report of Findingsfrom the 2015 LPN/VN Nursing Knowledge Survey. NCSBN ResearchBrief (66): March 2016a, retrieved July 18, 2016, fromhttps://www.ncsbn.org/16_LPN_KSA_vol66.pdf.National Council of State Boards of Nursing: National guidelines fornursing delegation. J Nurs Reg 7(1):5–14, 2016b.National Council of State Boards of Nursing: Participating states in thenurse licensure compact implementation, 2016c, retrieved July 14, 2016,from https://www.ncsbn.org/2538.htm.QSEN Institute, 2014, Nursing outlook special issue: quality and safetyeducation, retrieved from http://qsen.org/competencies/graduate-ksas/.Revised Code of Washington, Title 18, Chapter 18.79, Section 18.79.260,Registered nurse—activities allowed—delegation of tasks, 2008, retrievedMay 31, 2012, from http://apps.leg.wa.gov/RCW/default.aspx?cite=18.79.260.Silvestri L. Saunders comprehensive review for the NCLEX-RN® examination.ed 7 St Louis: Saunders; 2017.Standing T., Anthony M., Hertz J. Nurses’ narratives of outcomes afterdelegation to unlicensed assistive personnel. Outcomes Manag NursPract. 2001;5(1):18–23.Tucker A., Spear S. Operational failures and interruptions in hospital40nursing. Health Serv Res. 2006;41(3 Pt 1):643–662.41Recommended resourcesAlfaro-Lefevre R. Critical thinking, clinical reasoning, and clinical judgment: apractical approach. ed 6 St Louis: Saunders; 2017.Hansten R. The Master Coach Manual for the Relationship & Results OrientedHealthcare Program. Port Ludlow, Wash: Hansten Healthcare PLLC;2014.Hansten R. Relationship and results oriented healthcare™ planning andimplementation manual. Port Ludlow, Wash: Hansten Healthcare PLLC;2008.Hansten R., Jackson M. Clinical delegation skills: a handbook for professionalpractice. ed 4 Sudbury, Mass: Jones & Bartlett; 2009.Hansten R. Coach as chief correlator of tasks to results through delegationskill and teamwork development. Nurse Leader 12(4):69–73.Hansten Healthcare PLLC website, http://www.Hansten.com orhttp://www.RROHC.com. Check for new delegation/supervisionresources, online delegation, and assignment education modules athttp://learning.Hansten.com.National Council of State Boards of Nursing website,http://www.ncsbn.org. Contains links to state boards and abundantresources relating to delegation and supervision. Also download theANA and NCSBN Joint Statement on Delegation. The decision trees andstep-by-step process through the five rights are exceptionally clear anda great review to prepare for the NCLEX.42PA R T 2Prioritization, Delegation, andAssignment in Common HealthScenarios43C H A P T E R 144Pain45Questions1. Which postoperative client is manifesting the most serious negative effect ofinadequate pain management?1. Demonstrates continuous use of call bell related to unsatisfied needs anddiscomfort2. Develops venous thromboembolism related to immobility caused by painand discomfort3. Refuses to participate in physical therapy because of fear of pain caused byexercises4. Feels depressed about loss of function and hopeless about getting relieffrom pain2. A client with chronic pain reports to the charge nurse that the other nurseshave not been responding to requests for pain medication. What is the chargenurse's initial action?1. Check the medication administration records for the past several days.2. Ask the nurse educator to provide in-service training about painmanagement.3. Perform a complete pain assessment on the client and take a pain history.4. Have a conference with the staff nurses to assess their care of this client.3. According to recent guidelines from the American Pain Society incollaboration with the American Society of Anesthesiologists, what are thepriority pain management strategies that the nurse would expect to see in thepain management for postsurgical clients? Select all that apply.1. Acetaminophen and/or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) formanagement of postoperative pain in adults and children withoutcontraindications2. Surgical site-specific peripheral regional anesthetic techniques in adultsand children for procedures3. Neuraxial (epidural) analgesia for major thoracic and abdominalprocedures if the client has risk for cardiac complications or prolongedileus4. Multimodal therapy that could include opioids and nonopioid therapies,regional anesthetic techniques, and nonpharmacologic therapies5. Long-acting oral opioids, especially in the immediate postoperative period,for continuous around-the-clock relief6. Neuraxial administration of magnesium, benzodiazepines, neostigmine,tramadol, or ketamine is recommended for postoperative pain4. The home health nurse is interviewing an older client with a history of mildheart failure and rheumatoid arthritis. The client reports “feeling pretty good,46except for the pain and stiffness in my joints when I first get out of bed.”Which member of the health care team would be the most appropriate to aidin the client's report of pain?1. Health care provider to review the dosage and frequency of painmedication2. Physical therapist for evaluation of function and possible exercise therapy3. Social worker to locate community resources for complementary therapy4. Unlicensed assistive personnel to help client with a warm shower in themorning5. Family members are encouraging the client to “tough out the pain” ratherthan risk drug addiction to opioids. The client is stoically abiding. The nurserecognizes that the sociocultural dimension of pain is the current priority forthe client. Which question will the nurse ask?1. “Where is the pain located, and does it radiate to other parts of yourbody?”2. “How would you describe the pain, and how is it affecting you?”3. “What do you believe about pain medication and drug addiction?”4. “How is the pain affecting your activity level and your ability to function?”6. A client with diabetic neuropathy reports a burning, electrical-type pain inthe lower extremities that is worse at night and not responding tononsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Which medication will the nurseadvocate for first?1. Gabapentin2. Corticosteroids3. Hydromorphone4. Lorazepam7. Which client is most likely to receive opioids for extended periods of time?1. A client with fibromyalgia2. A client with phantom limb pain in the leg3. A client with progressive pancreatic cancer4. A client with trigeminal neuralgia8. The nurse is caring for a postoperative client who reports pain. Based onrecent evidence-based guidelines, which approach would be best?1. Multimodal strategies2. Standing orders by protocol3. Intravenous patient-controlled analgesia (PCA)4. Opioid dosage based on valid numerical scale9. The charge nurse is reviewing the records of clients who were assigned to anewly graduated RN. The RN has correctly documented dose and time ofmedication, but there is no documentation regarding nonpharmaceutical47measures. What action should the charge nurse take first?1. Make a note in the nurse's file and continue to observe clinicalperformance.2. Refer the new nurse to the in-service education department.3. Quiz the nurse about knowledge of pain management and pharmacology.4. Give praise for documenting dose and time and discuss documentationdeficits.10. Which clients must be assigned to an experienced RN? Select all that apply.1. Client who was in an automobile crash and sustained multiple injuries2. Client with chronic back pain related to a workplace injury3. Client who has returned from surgery and has a chest tube in place4. Client with abdominal cramps related to food poisoning5. Client with a severe headache of unknown origin6. Client with chest pain who has a history of arteriosclerosis11. In application of the principles of pain treatment, what is the firstconsideration?1. Treatment is based on client goals.2. A multidisciplinary approach is needed.3. Client's perception of pain must be accepted.4. Drug side effects must be prevented and managed.12. The nurse is considering seeking clarification for several prescriptions ofpain medication. Which client circumstance is the priority concern?1. A 35-year-old opioid-naïve adult will receive a basal dose of morphine viaIV patient-controlled analgesia (PCA).2. A 65-year-old adult will be discharged with a prescription for nonsteroidalanti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS).3. A 25-year-old adult is prescribed as needed intramuscular (IM) analgesicfor pain.4. A 45-year-old adult is taking oral fluids and foods has orders for IVmorphine.13. Which client has the most immediate need for IV access to deliverimmediate analgesia with rapid titration?1. Client who has sharp chest pain that increases with cough and shortness ofbreath2. Client who reports excruciating lower back pain with hematuria3. Client who is having an acute myocardial infarction with severe chest pain4. Client who is having a severe migraine with an elevated blood pressure14. When an analgesic is titrated to manage pain, what is the priority goal?1. Titrate to the smallest dose that provides relief with the fewest side effects.482. Titrate upward until the client is pain free or acceptable level is reached.3. Titrate downward to prevent toxicity, overdose, and adverse effects.4. Titrate to a dosage that is adequate to meet the client's subjective needs.15. The health care provider prescribes 7 mg morphine IV as needed (PRN). Thenursing student prepares the medication and shows the syringe (see figuresbelow) to the nursing instructor. What should the nursing instructor do first?49501. Tell the student to review the provider's prescription before administeringmedication.2. Waste the medication and tell the student that remediation is required forserious error.3. Ask the student to demonstrate the calculations and steps required toprepare the dose.4. Accompany the student to the client's room and observe as the medicationis administered.16. A client received as needed (PRN) morphine, lorazepam, andcyclobenzaprine. The unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) reports that theclient has a respiratory rate of 10 breaths/min. What is the priority action?1. Call the health care provider to obtain an order for naloxone.2. Assess the client's responsiveness and respiratory status.3. Obtain a bag-valve mask and deliver breaths at 20 breaths/min.4. Double-check the prescription to see which drugs were ordered.17. The client is diagnosed by the emergency department health care provider(HCP) with an acute migraine. For which situation is it most important tohave a discussion with the HCP before medication is prescribed?1. The HCP is considering dexamethasone to prevent reoccurrence, and theclient has type 2 diabetes.2. The HCP is considering subcutaneous sumatriptan, and the client tookergotamine 3 hours ago.3. The HCP is considering metoclopramide, and this is a first-time migrainefor the client.4. The HCP is considering prochlorperazine, and the client drove himself tothe hospital.18. Which client is at greatest risk for respiratory depression while receivingopioids for analgesia?1. Older adult client with chronic pain related to joint immobility2. Client with a heroin addiction and back pain3. Young female client with advanced multiple myeloma4. Opioid-naïve adolescent with an arm fracture and cystic fibrosis19. A client is crying and grimacing but denies pain and refuses pain medicationbecause “my brother is a drug addict and has ruined our lives.” What is thepriority intervention for this client?1. Encourage expression of fears and past experiences.2. Provide accurate information about the use of pain medication.3. Explain that addiction is unlikely among acute care clients.514. Seek family assistance in resolving this problem.20. A client's opioid therapy is being tapered off, and the nurse is watchful forsigns of withdrawal. What is one of the first signs of withdrawal?1. Fever2. Nausea3. Diaphoresis4. Abdominal cramps21. In the care of clients with pain and discomfort, which task is mostappropriate to delegate to unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Assisting the client with preparation of a sitz bath2. Monitoring the client for signs of discomfort while ambulating3. Coaching the client to deep breathe during painful procedures4. Evaluating relief after applying a cold compress22. The health care provider (HCP) has ordered a placebo for a client withchronic pain. The newly hired nurse feels very uncomfortable administeringthe medication. What is the first action that the new nurse should take?1. Prepare the medication and hand it to the HCP.2. Check the hospital policy regarding the use of a placebo.3. Follow a personal code of ethics and refuse to participate.4. Contact the charge nurse for advice and suggestions.23. For a cognitively impaired client who cannot accurately report pain, what isthe first action that the nurse should take?1. Closely assess for nonverbal signs such as grimacing or rocking.2. Obtain baseline behavioral indicators from family members.3. Note the time of and client's response to the last dose of analgesic.4. Give the maximum as needed (PRN) dose within the minimum time framefor relief.24. The oncoming day shift nurse has received the shift report from the nightnurse. The day shift nurse has done a quick check on all of the clients and hasdetermined that all are stable and not in acute distress. Prioritize the order inwhich the oncoming nurse will care for the following clients, 1 being the firstand 5 being the last.1. Adolescent who is alert and oriented. He was admitted 2 days ago fortreatment of meningitis. He reports a continuous headache that is partiallyrelieved by medication.2. Older man who underwent total knee replacement surgery 2 days ago. Heis using the patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) pump frequently with goodrelief and occasionally asks for bolus doses.3. Middle-aged woman who is demanding and frequently calls for assistance.She was admitted for investigation of functional abdominal pain and is52scheduled for diagnostic testing this morning.4. Older woman with advanced Alzheimer disease who requires total care forall activities of daily living. She struggles during any type of nursing care,and it is difficult to assess her subjective symptoms. She is awaitingtransfer to a long-term care facility.5. Young man who was admitted with chest pain secondary to a spontaneouspneumothorax. Today, the chest tube will be removed and the PCA pumpwill be discontinued._____, _____, _____, _____, _____25. On the first day after surgery, a client receiving an analgesic via patientcontrolledanalgesia pump reports that the pain control is inadequate. Whatis the first action that the nurse should take?1. Deliver the bolus dose per standing order.2. Contact the health care provider (HCP) to increase the dose.3. Try nonpharmacologic comfort measures.4. Assess the pain for location, quality, and intensity.26. The team is providing emergency care to a client who received an excessivedose of opioid pain medication. Which task is best to assign to the LPN/LVN?1. Calling the health care provider (HCP) to report SBAR (situation,background, assessment, recommendation)2. Giving naloxone and evaluating response to therapy3. Monitoring the respiratory status for the first 30 minutes4. Applying oxygen per nasal cannula as ordered27. What is the best way to schedule medication for a client with constant pain?1. As needed (PRN) at the client's request2. Before painful procedures3. IV bolus after pain assessment4. Around-the-clock28. Which clients can be appropriately assigned to an LPN/LVN who willfunction under the supervision of an RN or team leader? Select all thatapply.1. Client who needs preoperative teaching about the patient-controlledanalgesia pump2. Client with a leg cast who needs neuro-circ checks and as needed (PRN)hydrocodone3. Client who underwent a toe amputation and has diabetic neuropathic pain4. Client with terminal cancer and severe pain who is refusing medication5. Client who reports abdominal pain after being kicked, punched, and beaten6. Client with arthritis who needs scheduled pain medications and heatapplications5329. The nurse is caring for a client who had abdominal surgery yesterday. Theclient is restless and anxious and tells the nurse that the pain is getting worsedespite the pain medication. Physical assessment findings include thefollowing: temperature, 100.3°F (37.9°C); pulse rate, 110 beats/min;respiratory rate, 24 breaths/min; and blood pressure, 140/90 mm Hg. Theabdomen is rigid and tender to the touch. The nurse decides to notify theclient's provider. Place the following report information in the correct orderaccording to the SBAR (situation, background, assessment, recommendation)format.1. “He is restless and anxious: temperature is 100.3°F (37.9°C); pulse is 110beats/min; respiratory rate is 24 breaths/min; blood pressure is 140/90 mmHg. Abdomen is rigid and tender to touch with hypoactive bowel sounds.”2. “He had abdominal surgery yesterday. He is on morphine via patientcontrolledanalgesia, but he says the pain is getting progressively worse.”3. “I have tried to make him comfortable, and he is willing to wait until thenext scheduled dose of pain medication, but I think his pain warrantsevaluation.”4. “Would you like to give me an order for any laboratory tests or additionaltherapies at this time?”5. “Dr. S, this is Nurse J from Unit X. I’m calling about Mr. D, who isreporting severe abdominal pain.”_____, _____, _____, _____, _____30. Which clients can be appropriately assigned to a newly graduated RN whohas recently completed orientation? Select all that apply.1. Anxious client with chronic pain who frequently uses the call button2. Client on the second postoperative day who needs pain medication beforedressing changes3. Client with acquired immune deficiency syndrome who reports headacheand abdominal and pleuritic chest pain4. Client with chronic pain who is to be discharged with a new surgicallyimplanted catheter5. Client who is reporting pain at the site of a peripheral IV line6. Client with a kidney stone who needs frequent as needed (PRN) painmedication31. A client's family member comes to the nurse's station and says, “He needsmore pain medicine. He is still having a lot of pain.” What is the nurse's bestresponse?1. “The health care provider (HCP) ordered the medicine to be given every 4hours.”2. “If medication is given too frequently, there are ill effects.”3. “Please tell him that I will be right there to check on him.”544. “Let's wait about 40 minutes. If there he still hurts, I’ll call the HCP.”32. Pain disorder and depression have been diagnosed for a client. He reportschronic low back pain and states, “None of these doctors has done anythingto help.” Which client statement is cause for greatest concern?1. “I twisted my back last night, and now the pain is a lot worse.”2. “I’m so sick of this pain. I think I’m going to find a way to end it.”3. “Occasionally, I buy pain killers from a guy in my neighborhood.”4. “I’m going to sue you and the doctor; you aren’t doing anything for me.”33. A client has severe pain and bladder distention related to urinary retentionand possible obstruction. An experienced unlicensed assistive personnel(UAP) states that she received training in indwelling catheter insertion at aprevious job. What task can be delegated to this UAP?1. Assessing the bladder distention and the pain associated with urinaryretention2. Inserting the indwelling catheter after verifying her knowledge of steriletechnique3. Evaluating the relief of pain and bladder distention after the catheter isinserted4. Measuring the urine output after the catheter is inserted and obtaining aspecimen34. The nurse is caring for a young man with a history of substance abuse whohad exploratory abdominal surgery 4 days ago for a knife wound. There is aprescription to discontinue the morphine via patient-controlled analgesia andto start oral pain medication. The client begs, “Please don’t stop themorphine. My pain is really a lot worse today than it was yesterday.” What isthe best response?1. “Let me stop the pump, and we can try oral pain medication to see if itrelieves the pain.”2. “I realize that you are scared of the pain, but we must try to wean you offthe pump.”3. “Show me where your pain is and describe how it feels compared withyesterday.”4. “Let's take your vital signs; then I will discuss your concerns with thehealth care provider.”35. The nurse is caring for a young client with type 1 diabetes who hassustained injuries when she tried to commit suicide by crashing her car. Herblood glucose (BG) level is 550 mg/dL (30.5 mmol/L), but she refuses insulin;however, she wants the pain medication. What is the best action?1. Notify the charge nurse and make arrangements to transfer to intensivecare.2. Explain significance of BG and insulin and then call the health care55provider.3. Withhold the pain medication until she agrees to accept the insulin.4. Give her the pain medication and document the refusal of the insulin.36. The nurse is working with a health care provider who prescribes opioiddoses based on a specific pain intensity rating (dosing to the numbers).Which client circumstance is cause for greatest concern?1. A 73-year-old frail female client with a history of chronic obstructivepulmonary disease is prescribed 4 mg IV morphine for pain of 1 to 3 on ascale of 0 to 10.2. A 25-year-old postoperative male client with a history of opioid addictionis prescribed one tablet of oxycodone and acetaminophen for pain of 4 to 5on a scale of 0 to 10.3. A 33-year-old opioid-naïve female client who has a severe migraineheadache is prescribed 5 mg IV morphine for pain of 7 to 8 on a scale of 0 to10.4. A 60-year-old male with a history of rheumatoid arthritis is prescribed onetablet of hydromorphone for pain of 5 to 6 on scale of 0 to 10.37. The nurse recognizes that there are ethical considerations in helping clientsto achieve relief from pain. Which nursing action is the best example of theprinciple of nonmaleficence?1. Client seems excessively sedated but continues to ask for morphine, so thenurse conducts further assessment and seeks alternatives to opioidmedication.2. Client has no known disease disorders and no objective signs of poor healthor injury, but reports severe pain, so nurse advocates for pain medicine.3. Client is older, but he is mentally alert and demonstrates good judgment,so the nurse encourages the client to verbalize personal goals for painmanagement.4. Client repeatedly refuses pain medication but shows grimacing andreluctance to move, so the nurse explains the benefits of taking painmedication.38. The nurse is assessing a client who has been receiving opioid medication viapatient-controlled analgesia. What is an early sign that alerts the nurse to apossible adverse opioid reaction?1. Client reports shortness of breath.2. Client is more difficult to arouse.3. Client is more anxious and nervous.4. Client reports pain is worsening.39. The charge nurse of a long-term care facility is reviewing the methods andassessment tools that the staff nurses are using to assess pain. Which nurse isusing the best method to assess pain?561. Nurse A uses a behavioral assessment tool when the client is engaged inactivities.2. Nurse B asks a client who doesn’t speak English to point to the location ofpain.3. Nurse C uses the same numerical rating scale every day for the same client.4. Nurse D asks the daughter of a confused client to describe the client's pain.40. For which of these clients is IV morphine the first-line choice for painmanagement?1. A 33-year-old intrapartum client needs pain relief for labor contractions.2. A 24-year-old client reports severe headache related to being hit in thehead.3. A 56-year-old client reports breakthrough bone pain related to multiplemyeloma.4. A 73-year-old client reports chronic pain associated with hip replacementsurgery.41. The client is prescribed a fentanyl patch for persistent severe pain. Whichclient behavior most urgently requires correction?1. Frequently likes to sit in the hot tub to reduce joint stiffness2. Prefers to place the patch only on the upper anterior chest wall3. Saves and reuses the old patches when he can’t afford new ones4. Changes the patch every 4 days rather than the prescribed 72 hours42. The home health nurse discovers that an older adult client has been sharinghis pain medication with his daughter. Despite the nurse's warnings aboutthe dangers of sharing, he states, “My daughter can’t afford to see a doctor orto buy medicine, so I must give her a few of my pain pills.” Which member ofthe health care team is the nurse most likely to consult first?1. Health care provider to renew the prescription so that client has enoughmedicine2. Pharmacist to monitor the frequency of the prescription refills3. Social worker to help the family locate resources for health care4. Home health aide to watch for inappropriate medication usage by family43. For a postoperative client, the health care provider (HCP) prescribedmultimodal therapy, which includes acetaminophen, nonsteroidal antiinflammatorydrugs, as needed (PRN) opioids, and nonpharmaceuticalinterventions. The client continuously asks for the PRN opioid, and the nursesuspects that the client may have a drug abuse problem. Which action by thenurse is best?1. Administer acetaminophen and spend extra time with the client.2. Explain that opioid medication is reserved for moderate to severe pain.3. Give the opioid because client deserves relief and drug abuse is57unconfirmed.4. Ask the HCP to validate suspicions of drug abuse and alter the opioidprescription.44. An inexperienced graduate nurse is reviewing the medicationadministration record (MAR) for a client who has a patient-controlledanalgesia (PCA) pump for pain management. The new nurse compares theMAR and the health care provider's (HCP’s) prescription, and both indicatethat larger doses are prescribed at night compared with doses throughout theday. Which member of the health care team should the new nurse consultfirst?1. Ask the client if he typically needs extra medication in the evening.2. Ask the HCP to verify that the larger amount is the correct dose.3. Ask the pharmacist to confirm the dosage on the original prescription.4. Ask the charge nurse if this is a typical dosage for nighttime PCA.58Answer Key1. Ans: 2 Inadequate pain management for postsurgical clients can affect qualityof life, function, recovery, and postsurgical complication; thus, all themanifestations are examples of negative results. However, venousthromboembolism can lead to pulmonary embolism, and this is an immediatelife-threatening concern. The nurse also needs to implement interventions toresolve unsatisfied needs, fear of pain, and hopelessness related to pain andfunction. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Use Maslow's hierarchy toidentify priorities in caring for clients. Physiologic needs are the first concern.In this case, venous thromboembolism is the most serious physiologicoutcome secondary to inadequate pain management.2. Ans: 4 The charge nurse must assess the performance and attitude of the staffin relation to this client. After data are gathered from the nurses, additionalinformation can be obtained from the records and the client as necessary. Theeducator may be of assistance if a knowledge deficit or need for performanceimprovement is the problem. Focus: Supervision, Prioritization; Test TakingTip: The first step of nursing process is assessment. In this case, the chargenurse applies nursing process to assess the nursing staff's performance andattitudes.3. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 4 The American Pain Society in collaboration with the AmericanSociety of Anesthesiologists recommendations for postoperative clientsinclude: acetaminophen and/or NSAIDs if there are no contraindications;surgical site-specific peripheral regional anesthetic for procedures; neuraxialanalgesia (also known as epidural) for major thoracic and abdominalprocedures, if client has risk for cardiac complications or prolonged ileus; andmultimodal therapy, which includes use of different types of medications andother therapies. Long-acting oral opioids are not recommended in thepostoperative period. Neuraxial administration of magnesium,benzodiazepines, neostigmine, tramadol, and ketamine is not recommended.Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Passing a test and working as acompetent nurse requires keeping up to date with current practice guidelines.Select all that apply questions are particularly challenging. Read each optioncarefully and try to exclude incorrect options.4. Ans: 4 One of the common features of rheumatoid arthritis is joint pain andstiffness when first rising. This usually resolves over the course of the day. Anonpharmaceutical measure is to take a warm shower (or apply warm packsto joints if pain is limited to one or two joints). If pain worsens, then the nursemay elect to contact other members of the health care team for additionalinterventions. Focus: Delegation.5. Ans: 3 Beliefs, attitudes, and familial influence are part of the socioculturaldimension of pain. Location and radiation of pain address the sensorydimension. Describing pain and its effects addresses the affective dimension.59Activity level and function address the behavioral dimension. Asking aboutknowledge addresses the cognitive dimension. Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 1 Gabapentin is an antiepileptic drug, but it is also used to treat diabeticneuropathy. Corticosteroids are for pain associated with inflammation.Hydromorphone is a stronger opioid, and it is not the first choice for chronicpain that can be managed with other drugs. Lorazepam is an anxiolytic thatmay be prescribed as an adjuvant medication. Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 3 Cancer pain generally worsens with disease progression, and the useof opioids is more generous. Fibromyalgia is more likely to be treated withnonopioid and adjuvant medications. Trigeminal neuralgia is treated withantiseizure medications such as carbamazepine. Phantom limb pain usuallysubsides after ambulation begins. Focus: Prioritization.8. Ans: 1 Multimodal therapies for postoperative clients include opioids andnonopioid therapies, regional anesthetic techniques, and nonpharmacologictherapies. This approach is thought to be the most important strategy for painmanagement for most postoperative clients. Standing orders are less optimalbecause there is no consideration of individual needs or characteristics. PCAis one important element, but not all clients can manage PCA devices.Assessment tools are an important part of overall management, but basingopioid dose on a numerical scale does not consider individual clientcircumstances. Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 4 In supervision of the new RN, good performance should be reinforcedfirst and then areas of improvement can be addressed. Asking the nurseabout knowledge of pain management is also an option; however, it wouldbe a more indirect and time-consuming approach. Making a note andwatching do not help the nurse to correct the immediate problem. In-servicetraining might be considered if the problem persists. Focus: Supervision.10. Ans: 1, 3, 5, 6 These clients should be assigned to an experienced RN becauseall have acute conditions that require close monitoring for any developingcomplications. Abdominal cramps secondary to food poisoning is an acutecondition; however, the cramping, vomiting and diarrhea are usually selflimiting.The client with chronic back pain would be considered physicallystable. Although all clients will benefit from care provided by an experiencedRN, the client with abdominal cramps and the client with back pain could beassigned to a new RN, an LPN/LVN, or a float nurse. Focus: Assignment;Test Taking Tip: To determine acuity of clients, use nursing concepts, suchas gas exchange and perfusion. Clients 1, 3, 5, and 6 could have potentialproblems related to perfusion. The client with the chest tube could also havea potential problem related to gas exchange.11. Ans: 3 The client must be believed, and his or her experience of pain must beacknowledged as valid. The data gathered via client reports can then beapplied to the other options in developing the treatment plan. Focus:Prioritization.6012. Ans: 1 The nurse would consider questioning all of the medicationprescriptions, but the opioid-naïve adult has the greatest immediate risk,because use of a basal dose has been associated with an increased incidenceof respiratory depression in opioid-naïve clients. Older adults are frequentlyprescribed NSAIDS; however, they are used with caution, and the client'shistory should be reviewed for potential problems, such as a history ofgastrointestinal bleeding, cardiac disease, or renal dysfunction. Manymedications such as anticoagulants, oral hypoglycemics, diuretics, andantihypertensives can also cause adverse drug–drug interactions withNSAIDs. IM injections cause pain, absorption is unreliable, and there are noadvantages over other routes of administration routes. If a client is able totolerate oral foods and fluids, oral medications are preferred because theefficacy of the oral route is equal to the IV route. Focus: Prioritization; TestTaking Tip: It is worthwhile to study the purposes, pharmacologic actions,and side effects of commonly used medications. Morphine is considered theprototype of the opioid medications. For opioid-naïve clients, the priorityconcern is respiratory depression. For clients who need opioids for long-termpain management, the primary side effect is constipation.13. Ans: 3 The client with an acute myocardial infarction has the greatest needfor IV access and is likely to receive morphine, which will relieve pain andincrease venous capacitance. The other clients may also need IV access fordelivery of pain medication, other drugs, or IV fluids, but the need is lessurgent. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 1 The goal is to control pain while minimizing side effects. For severepain, the medication can be titrated upward until the pain is controlled.Downward titration occurs when the pain begins to subside. Focus:Prioritization.15. Ans: 3 . The student has made an error and thesyringe, as shown, contains 70 mg. The syringe contains 7 mL of medication.The student should have obtained a tuberculin syringe and drawn up 0.7 mL.First, the nursing instructor would assess the student's knowledge andunderstanding of the calculations and method of preparing the medication.The instructor would use this approach to help the student self-identifyerrors, which might include misinterpreting the original prescription,misreading the label, or misreading the syringe markings. Focus:Prioritization, Supervision.16. Ans: 2 The UAP has correctly reported findings, but the nurse is ultimatelyresponsible to assess first and then determine the correct action. Based onassessment findings, the other options may also be appropriate. Focus:Prioritization.17. Ans: 2 The American Headache Society developed recent guidelines fortreatment of acute migraines. Intravenous metoclopramide andprochlorperazine and subcutaneous sumatriptan are recommended for adults61who present with first-time onset of acute migraines. Sumatriptan should notbe used if ergotamine, dihydroergotamine, or other triptan medication hasbeen used in the past 24 hours because of the additive effect of narrowing ofthe blood vessels that could result in damage to major organs (e.g., stroke ormyocardial infarction). Dexamethasone may cause increased glucose levels.Prochlorperazine can cause drowsiness. Focus: Prioritization.18. Ans: 4 At greatest risk are older adult clients, opiate-naïve clients, and thosewith underlying pulmonary disease. The adolescent has two of the three riskfactors. Focus: Prioritization.19. Ans: 1 This client has strong beliefs and emotions related to the issue of thebrother's addiction. First, encourage expression. This indicates to the clientthat the feelings are real and valid. It is also an opportunity to assess beliefsand fears. Giving facts and information is appropriate at the right time.Family involvement is important, and their beliefs about drug addiction maybe similar to those of the client. Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 3 Diaphoresis is one of the early signs that occurs between 6 and 12hours after withdrawal. Fever, nausea, and abdominal cramps are late signsthat occur between 48 and 72 hours after withdrawal. Focus: Prioritization;Test Taking Tip: In studying for NCLEX®, pay attention to early signs ofdisease processes. Early detection is considered a safety measure; therefore,NCLEX® tests to determine if you can perform early identification ofpotential problems.21. Ans: 1 The UAP can assist the client with hygiene issues and knows theprinciples of safety and comfort for this procedure. Monitoring the client,teaching techniques, and evaluating outcomes are nursing responsibilities.Focus: Delegation.22. Ans: 4 Administering placebos is generally considered unethical. (There arecircumstances, such as clinical drug research where placebos are used, butclients are aware of that possibility.) The charge nurse is a resource personwho can help clarify the situation and locate and review the hospital policy. Ifthe HCP is insistent, suggest that he or she could give the placebo. (Note: Use“could,” not “should,” when talking to the HCP. This provides a smallopportunity to rethink the decision. “Should” elicits a more defensiveresponse.) Although following a personal ethical code is correct, the nursemust ensure that the client is not abandoned and that care continues. Focus:Prioritization.23. Ans: 2 Complete information should be obtained from the family during theinitial comprehensive history taking and assessment. If this information is notobtained, the nursing staff must rely on observation of nonverbal behaviorand careful documentation to determine pain and relief patterns. Focus:Prioritization.24. Ans: 5, 3, 1, 2, 4 All of the clients are in relatively stable condition. The clientwith the pneumothorax has priority because chest tubes can leak or become62dislodged or blocked. Lung sounds and respiratory effort should beevaluated before and after removal of the chest tube. The woman who will beleaving the unit for diagnostic testing should be assessed and prepared, asneeded, before she leaves for the procedure. In a client with meningitis, aheadache is not unexpected, but neurologic status and pain should beassessed. The report of postoperative pain is expected, but this client isgetting reasonable relief most of the time. Caring for and assessing the clientwith Alzheimer disease is likely to be very time consuming; caring for her lastprevents delaying care for all the others. In addition, elderly clients withdementia benefit if the caregiver does not act rushed or hurried. Focus:Prioritization.25. Ans: 4 Assess the pain for changes in location, quality, and intensity, as wellas changes in response to medication. This assessment will guide the nextsteps. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: During clinical rotations, youmay observe nurses giving pain medication without performing an adequatepain assessment. This is an error in clinical performance. In postoperativeclients, pain could signal complications, such hemorrhage, infection, ordecreased perfusion related to tissue swelling. Always assess pain first; thenmake a decision about giving medication, using nonpharmacologic methods,or contacting the HCP.26. Ans: 4 The LPN/LVN is well trained to administer oxygen per nasal cannula.This client is considered unstable; therefore, the RN should takeresponsibility for administering drugs and monitoring the response totherapy, which includes the effects on the respiratory system. The RN shouldalso take responsibility to communicate with the HCP for ongoing treatmentand therapy. Focus: Assignment.27. Ans: 4 If the pain is constant, the best schedule is around-the-clock toprovide steady analgesia and pain control. The other options may requirehigher dosages to achieve control. Focus: Prioritization.28. Ans: 2, 3, 6 The clients with the cast, toe amputation, and arthritis are instable condition and need ongoing assessment and pain management that arewithin the scope of practice of an LPN/LVN under the supervision of an RN.The RN should take responsibility for preoperative teaching, and the clientwith terminal cancer needs a comprehensive assessment to determine thereason for refusal of medication. The client with trauma needs serialassessments to detect occult trauma. Focus: Assignment.29. Ans: 5, 2, 1, 3, 4 Using the SBAR format, the nurse first identifies himself orherself, gives the client's name, and describes the current situation. Next,relevant background information, such as the client's diagnosis, medications,and laboratory data, is stated. The assessment includes both client assessmentdata that are of concern and the nurse's analysis of the situation. Finally, thenurse makes a recommendation indicating what action he or she thinks isneeded. Focus: Prioritization.6330. Ans: 2, 5, 6 The client who is second day postoperative, the client who haspain at the IV site, and the client with the kidney stone have predictableneeds and require routine care that a new nurse can manage. The anxiousclient with chronic pain needs an in-depth assessment of the psychologicaland emotional components of pain and expert intervention. The client withacquired immune deficiency syndrome has complex issues that requireexpert assessment skills. The client pending discharge will need special anddetailed instructions. Focus: Assignment.31. Ans: 3 Responding to the client and family in a timely fashion is important.Next, directly ask the client about the pain and perform a complete painassessment. This information will determine which action to take next. Focus:Prioritization.32. Ans: 2 This statement is a veiled suicide threat, and clients with paindisorder and depression have a high risk for suicide. New injuries must beevaluated, but this type of pain report is not uncommon for clients with paindisorder. Risk for substance abuse is very high and should eventually beaddressed. The client can always threaten to sue, but the nurse must remaincalm and continue to provide care with professional courtesy. Focus:Prioritization.33. Ans: 4 Measuring output and obtaining a specimen are within the scope ofpractice of the UAP. Insertion of the indwelling catheter in this client shouldbe done by an experienced RN because clients with obstruction and retentionare usually very difficult to catheterize, and the nurse must evaluate the painresponse during the procedure. The UAP's knowledge of sterile technique orcatheter insertion is not the issue. Focus: Delegation.34. Ans: 3 Assessing the pain is the priority in this acute care setting becausethere is a risk of infection or hemorrhage. The other options might beappropriate based on the assessment findings. Focus: Prioritization.35. Ans: 2 Explain that insulin is a priority because life-threatening ketoacidosismay already be in progress. If she is already aware of the dangers of anelevated BG level, then her refusal suggests ongoing suicidal intent and theprovider should be notified so that steps can be taken to override her refusal(potentially a court order). A BG level of over 600 mg/dL (33.3 mmol/L) istypically a criterion for transfer to intensive care, but making arrangementsfor transfer is time consuming, and treatment of the elevated BG shouldbegin as soon as possible. Withholding pain medication is unethical, andmerely documenting refusal of insulin is inappropriate because of elevatedBG and possible ongoing suicidal intent. Focus: Prioritization.36. Ans: 1 According to the American Society for Pain Management Nursing,prescribing opioid medication based solely on pain intensity should beprohibited because there are many other factors to consider (e.g., age, healthconditions, medication history, respiratory status). Age, small body mass,and underlying respiratory disease put the 73-year-old client at greatest risk64for overmedication and respiratory depression. Clients with history of opioidaddiction will have a different response to medication and may need higherdoses to achieve relief. IV morphine may actually worsen migraineheadaches, and other first-line drugs (metoclopramide and prochlorperazineand subcutaneous sumatriptan) are more effective. Hydromorphone is nottypically prescribed for the pain associated with chronic of rheumatoidarthritis. Focus: Prioritization.37. Ans: 1 Nonmaleficence is to prevent harm. If the client is excessivelysedated, the nurse knows that giving additional opioid medication could domore harm than good, so the nurse would conduct further assessments andseek alternative options for pain relief. The client's report of pain should bebelieved, so based on the principle of justice, the nurse advocates for painmedication even though an organic cause of disease is not identified. Byencouraging the client to have a voice in her or his own pain managementgoals, the nurse is applying the principle of autonomy. By explaining thebenefits of pain medication, the nurse is applying the principle of beneficenceto help the client recognize the balance between pain control and safety.Focus: Prioritization.38. Ans: 2 Most adverse opioid events are preceded by an increased level ofsedation. Focus: Prioritization.39. Ans: 3 Pain assessment is very complex, but the consistent use of the sameassessment tool is the best method. The nurse should use all tools inconjunction with observation, clients’ self-report, and other assessment skills.When a client is engaged in an activity, behavior may not accurately reflectpain. Asking a client to point to the pain is only one part of the total painassessment. Relatives of confused clients can assist the nurse to recognize themeaning of behaviors, but they are not able to describe pain sensations for theclient. Focus: Supervision.40. Ans: 3 The client with cancer needs morphine for symptom relief. Forobstetric clients, morphine can suppress fetal respiration and uterinecontractions, so regional or epidural methods are preferred. For head injuries,morphine could make evaluation of mental status more difficult. In addition,if respirations are depressed, intracranial pressure could increase. Opioids areusually not the first-line choice for chronic pain, and opioids must be usedwith caution in older adult clients because of changes related to aging, suchas renal clearance. In addition, use of opioids increases risk for falls andcontributes to constipation. Focus: Prioritization.41. Ans: 1 All of these behaviors require correction; however, heat can increasethe release of medication from the patch and result in a sudden overdose. Theclient should be urged to rotate sites to prevent irritation of the skin. Reusingold patches and delaying the patch changes are likely to give less thanoptimal pain relief. Based on assessment of behaviors, the nurse wouldreeducate about use of the patch, help the client seek financial resources, ordevelop a reminder system for patch change intervals. Focus: Prioritization.6542. Ans: 3 If the social worker can assist the family to find affordablealternatives, then the father is more likely to stop giving his medication to thedaughter. Focus: Prioritization.43. Ans: 3 The nurse is weighing benefit against harm. If client is a drug abuser,the medication given in the hospital is not harming him. If the client is not adrug abuser, then withholding the medication causes him to suffer painbecause of unconfirmed suspicions. The nurse must also remember thatmedical use of opioids does not cause addiction and for clients who areaddicted, withholding medication in the hospital setting does not resolve theaddictive behavior. Focus: Prioritization.44. Ans: 4 The nurse has taken the first correct step and compared the MAR tothe HCP's original prescription. Because the nurse is new, the charge nursewould be the best resource. In fact, larger PCA doses are given at night toincrease the interval between doses. This helps the client to rest and sleep.The nurse can contact the other members of the health care team at any timeif the charge nurse is unable to help. Focus: Prioritization.66C H A P T E R 267Cancer68Questions1. The patient describes a burning sensation in the leg. The health care providertells the nurse that a medication will be prescribed for neuropathic painsecondary to chemotherapy. The nurse is most likely to question theprescription of which drug?1. Imipramine2. Carbamazepine3. Gabapentin4. Morphine2. A patient who has cancer will need ongoing treatment for pain. Whichbrochure is the nurse most likely to prepare that addresses questions relatedto the first-line treatment of cancer pain?1. “An Illustrated Guide to the Analgesic Ladder”2. “Common Questions About Radiation Therapy”3. “How to Make Preparations for Your Cancer Surgery”4. “How Nerve Blocks Can Help to Manage Cancer Pain”3. Which nurse is demonstrating the first step in managing cancer pain by usingthe ABCDE (ask, believe, choose, deliver, and empower) clinical approach topain management as recommended by the Agency for Healthcare Researchand Quality?1. Nurse J asks if the time of the prescribed dose of medication can bechanged.2. Nurse K asks the patient to describe pain and uses a numerical pain scale.3. Nurse L asks the patient to participate and to contribute in painmanagement.4. Nurse M asks about pain management options that are appropriate for thepatient.4. The nurse assesses the patient and determines that the patient is havingfrequent breakthrough cancer pain. Which member of the health care team isthe nurse most likely to contact first?1. Physical therapist to reevaluate physical therapy routines2. Health care provider to review medication, dosage, and frequency3. Unlicensed assistive personnel to provide more assistance with activities ofdaily living4. Psychiatric clinical nurse specialist to evaluate psychogenic pain5. The night shift nurse tells the oncoming dayshift nurse that the cancer patientis on around-the-clock dosing of morphine but that the patient might behaving end-of-dose pain. Which question is the most important to ask the69night shift nurse?1. “How many times did you have to give a bolus dose of morphine?”2. “Did the patient tell you that the pain was greater than a 5/10?”3. “Did you notify the health care provider (HCP), and were changesprescribed?”4. “Did you try any nonpharmaceutical therapies or adjuvant medications?6. The nurse is caring for a patient with esophageal cancer. Which task could bedelegated to unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Assisting the patient with oral hygiene2. Observing the patient's response to feedings3. Facilitating expression of grief or anxiety4. Initiating daily weights7. A 56-year-old patient comes to the walk-in clinic reporting scant rectalbleeding and intermittent diarrhea and constipation for the past severalmonths. There is a history of polyps and a family history of colorectal cancer.While the nurse is trying to teach about colonoscopy, the patient becomesangry and threatens to leave. What is the priority nursing concept to considerin responding to this patient?1. Elimination2. Patient education3. Cellular regulation4. Anxiety8. Which patient is at greatest risk for pancreatic cancer?1. An older African-American man who smokes2. A young white obese woman with gallbladder disease3. A young African-American man with type 1 diabetes4. An elderly white woman who has pancreatitis9. Patients receiving chemotherapy are at risk for thrombocytopenia related tochemotherapy or disease processes. Which actions are needed for patientswho must be placed on bleeding precautions? Select all that apply.1. Provide mouthwash with alcohol for oral rinsing.2. Use paper tape on fragile skin.3. Provide a soft toothbrush or oral sponge.4. Gently insert rectal suppositories.5. Avoid aspirin or aspirin-containing products.6. Avoid overinflation of blood pressure cuffs.10. When care assignments are being made for patients with alterations relatedto gastrointestinal (GI) cancer, which patient would be the most appropriateto assign to an LPN/LVN under the supervision of a team leader RN?701. A patient with severe anemia secondary to GI bleeding2. A patient who needs enemas and antibiotics to control GI bacteria3. A patient who needs preoperative teaching for bowel resection surgery4. A patient who needs central line insertion for chemotherapy11. A community health center is preparing a presentation on the preventionand detection of cancer. Which task would be best to assign to the LPN/LVN?1. Explain screening examinations and diagnostic testing for common cancers.2. Discuss how to plan a balanced diet and reduce fats and preservatives.3. Prepare a poster on the seven warning signs of cancer.4. Describe strategies for reducing risk factors such as smoking and obesity.12. The health care provider (HCP) tells the patient with cancer that there willbe an initial course of treatment with continued maintenance treatments andongoing observation for signs and symptoms over a prolonged period oftime. Which patient statement is cause for greatest concern?1. “My symptoms will eventually be cured; I’m so happy that I don’t have toworry any longer.”2. “My doctor is trying to help me control the symptoms; I am grateful for theextension of time with my family.”3. “My pain will be relieved, but I am going to die soon; I would like to havecontrol over my own life and death.”4. “Initially, I may have to take some time off work for my treatments; I canprobably work full time in the future.”13. For a patient who is experiencing side effects of radiation therapy, whichtask would be the most appropriate to delegate to unlicensed assistivepersonnel (UAP)?1. Helping the patient to identify patterns of fatigue2. Recommending participation in a walking program3. Reporting the amount and type of food consumed from the tray4. Checking the skin for redness and irritation after the treatment14. An older patient needs treatment and relief for severe localized pain relatedto postherpetic neuralgia that developed during chemotherapy. The nurse ismost likely to question the prescription of which type of medication?1. Lidocaine patch2. Gabapentinoid3. Capsaicin patch4. Tricyclic antidepressant15. For a patient receiving the chemotherapeutic drug vincristine, which sideeffect should be reported to the health care provider (HCP)?1. Fatigue712. Nausea3. Paresthesia4. Anorexia16. An experienced nurse is precepting a newly hired nurse who has 2 years ofmedical-surgical experience but limited experience with patients who havecancer. The new hire seems to be consistently under medicating the patients’pain. What should the preceptor do first?1. Reassess all of the patients and administer additional pain medication asneeded.2. Write an incident report and inform the nurse manager about the nurse'sperformance.3. Determine the new nurse's understanding and beliefs about cancer painand treatments.4. Ask the new nurse about past experience in administering painmedications.17. For a patient who is receiving chemotherapy, which laboratory result is ofparticular importance?1. White blood cell count2. Prothrombin time3. Electrolyte levels4. Blood urea nitrogen level18. For care of a patient who has oral cancer, which task would be appropriateto assign to an LPN/LVN?1. Assisting the patient to perform oral hygiene2. Explaining when brushing and flossing are contraindicated3. Giving antacids and sucralfate suspension as ordered4. Recommending saliva substitutes19. When staff assignments are made for the care of patients who are receivingchemotherapy, what is the major consideration regarding chemotherapeuticdrugs?1. Administration of chemotherapy requires precautions to protect self andothers.2. Many chemotherapeutic drugs are vesicants.3. Chemotherapeutic drugs are frequently given through central venousaccess devices.4. Oral and venous routes of administration are the most common.20. The oncoming day shift nurse has just received hand over report from thenight shift nurse. List the order of priority for assessing and caring for thefollowing patients, with 1 being first and 4 being last.1. A patient who developed tumor lysis syndrome around 5:00 am722. A patient who is currently pain free but had breakthrough pain during thenight3. A patient scheduled for exploratory laparotomy this morning4. A patient with anticipatory nausea and vomiting for the past 24 hours_______, _______, _______, _______21. The nurse is monitoring a patient who is at risk for spinal cord compressionrelated to tumor growth. Which patient statement is most likely to suggest anearly manifestation?1. “Last night my back really hurt, and I had trouble sleeping.”2. “My leg has been giving out when I try to stand.”3. “My bowels are just not moving like they usually do.”4. “When I try to pass urine, I have difficulty starting the stream.”22. The nurse is caring for an older woman with hepatic cancer. Unlicensedassistive personnel informs the nurse that the patient's level of consciousnessis diminished compared with earlier in the shift. Prioritize the steps ofassessment and intervention related to this patient's change of mental status.1. Take vital signs, including pulse, respirations, blood pressure, andtemperature.2. Check responsiveness and level of consciousness.3. Obtain a blood glucose reading; give glucose per protocol.4. Check electrolyte values.5. Check ammonia level.6. Check pulse oximeter readings and administer oxygen as needed._______, _______, _______, _______, _______, _______23. The day shift nurse is assessing the patient who has breast cancer andnotices edema of the face, periorbital edema, and tightness around the neck ofthe gown. The nurse immediately notifies the health care provider for earlysigns and symptoms of superior vena cava syndrome. On the figure belowidentify the superior vena cava.7324. For a patient with osteogenic sarcoma, which laboratory value causes themost concern?1. Sodium level of 135 mEq/L (135 mmol/L)2. Calcium level of 13 mg/dL (3.25 mmol/L)3. Potassium level of 4.9 mEq/L (4.9 mmol/L)4. Hematocrit of 40%25. Which cancer patients could be placed together as roommates? Select allthat apply.1. A patient who has a very low neutrophil count2. A patient who underwent debulking of a tumor to relieve pressure3. A patient who just underwent a bone marrow transplantation4. A patient who had a laminectomy for spinal cord compression5. A patient who is undergoing brachytherapy for prostate cancer6. A patient with terminal cancer who is receiving end-of-life care26. An athletic young man was recently diagnosed with Ewing sarcoma. He haspain, low-grade fever, and anemia. The surgeon recommends amputation ofthe right lower leg for an operable tumor. The patient tells the nurse that he isleaving the hospital to go on a long hiking trip. What is the priority nursingconcept to consider at this time?1. Pain2. Cellular regulation743. Coping4. Adherence27. After chemotherapy, a patient is being closely monitored for tumor lysissyndrome. Which laboratory result requires particular attention?1. Platelet counts2. Electrolyte levels3. Hemoglobin levels4. Hematocrit levels28. People at risk are the target populations for cancer screening programs.According to the latest screening recommendations from the AmericanCancer Society, which of these asymptomatic patients need extraencouragement to participate in cancer screening? Select all that apply.1. A 21-year-old white American woman who is sexually inactive, for a Paptest2. A 30-year-old Asian-American woman, for an annual mammogram3. A 45-year-old African-American man, to talk with health care providerabout prostate cancer4. A 50-year-old white American man, for a fecal occult blood test5. A 50-year-old white American woman, for a colonoscopy6. A 70-year-old Asian-American woman who had a total hysterectomy 15years ago (not for cancer reasons), for a Pap test29. A patient with lung cancer develops syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretichormone secretion (SIADH). After reporting symptoms of weight gain,weakness, and nausea and vomiting to the health care provider, the nursewould anticipate which initial treatment for this patient?1. A fluid bolus2. Fluid restrictions3. Urinalysis4. Sodium-restricted diet30. In the care of a patient with neutropenia, what tasks should the nurseinstruct unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) to perform? Select all thatapply.1. Taking vital signs every 4 hours2. Reporting temperature of more than 100.4°F (38°C)3. Assessing for sore throat, cough, or burning with urination4. Gathering the supplies to prepare the room for protective isolation5. Reporting superinfections, such as candidiasis6. Practicing good hand-washing technique31. A primary nursing responsibility is the prevention of lung cancer by75assisting patients in cessation of smoking or other tobacco use. Which taskwould be appropriate to assign to an LPN/LVN?1. Develop a “quit plan”2. Explain how to apply a nicotine patch3. Discuss strategies to avoid relapse4. Suggest ways to deal with urges for tobacco32. The nurse is providing end-of-life-care for a patient with terminal livercancer. The patient is weak and restless. Her skin is cool and mottled.Dyspnea develops, and the patient appears anxious and frightened. Whatshould the nurse do first?1. Administer an as needed (PRN) dose of morphine elixir.2. Alert the Rapid Response Team and call the health care provider.3. Deliver breaths at 20 breaths/min with a bag-valve mask and prepare forintubation.4. Sit quietly with the patient and offer emotional support and comfort.33. The nurse is asked to float to a different nursing unit. During report, thenurse is told that the patient is receiving IV administration of vincristine thatshould be completed within the next 15 minutes. The IV site is intact, and thepatient is not having any problems with the infusion. The nurse is notcertified in chemotherapy administration. What is the priority action?1. Ask the off-going nurse to stay until the vincristine infusion is finished.2. Ask the off-going nurse about problems to expect with vincristineinfusions.3. Contact the charge nurse and discuss the lack of chemotherapycertification.4. Look up drug side effects and monitor because the infusion is almostcomplete.34. The nurse is caring for a patient with uterine cancer who is being treatedwith intracavitary radiation therapy. Unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)reports that the patient insisted on ambulating to the bathroom and now“something feels like it is coming out.” What is the priority action?1. Assess the UAP's knowledge; explain the rationale for strict bed rest.2. Assess for dislodgment; use forceps to retrieve and a lead container to storeas needed.3. Assess the patient's knowledge of the treatment plan and her willingness toparticipate.4. Notify the health care provider about dislodgment of the radiation implant.35. The charge nurse discovers that two nurses have switched patients becauseNurse A does “not like to take care of patients with prostate cancer.” Whichaction should the charge nurse take first?1. Insist that they switch back to the original patient assignments and talk to76each of them at the end of the shift.2. Allow them this flexibility; as long as the patients are well cared for, itdoesn’t matter if the assignments are changed.3. Ask Nurse A to explain her position regarding prostate cancer patients andseek alternatives to prevent future issues.4. Explain to Nurse A and B that all patients deserve kindness and careregardless of their condition or the nurses’ personal feelings.36. Which assessment finding strongly suggests that the patient with cancer ishaving incident pain?1. Frequently reports pain about 30 to 35 minutes before next scheduled dose2. Demonstrates protectiveness of right arm whenever moving or standing up3. Reports a continuous burning and tingling sensation in left lower leg4. Appears quiet, withdrawn and depressed when family leaves after visiting37. The home health nurse is reviewing the cancer patient's medication list andsees that a bisphosphonate medication has been prescribed. Which questionis the nurse most likely to ask to evaluate the efficacy of the medication?1. “Has the medication helped relieve the discomfort in your mouth?”2. “Have you noticed any increase or changes in your energy level?”3. “Has the medication helped to stop the nausea and vomiting?”4. “Has the medication relieved the bone pain that you were having?”38. The nurse hears in hand-off report that the patient with cancer received anas needed (PRN) oral dose of lorazepam. Which question is the oncomingnurse most likely to ask the off-going nurse in relation to the medication?1. “What did the patient say about the location and level of the pain?”2. “Were you able to determine what was making the patient so anxious?”3. “When is the patient allowed to have another dose of lorazepam?”4. “Did the patient have a normal bowel movement after the medication?39. The nurse is interviewing a patient who was treated several months ago forbreast cancer. The patient reports taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatorydrugs (NSAIDs) for back pain. Which patient comment is cause for greatestconcern?1. “The NSAIDs are really not relieving the back pain.”2. “The NSAID tablets are too large, and they are hard to swallow.”3. “I gained weight because I eat a lot before taking NSAIDs.”4. “The NSAIDs are upsetting my stomach in the morning.”40. The nurse is talking to a group of older women about breast cancer. Basedon the most recent guidelines from the American Cancer Society and theAmerican Society of Clinical Oncology, what will the nurse tell the groupabout the current recommendations for breast cancer screening?1. For older women in good general health and a life expectancy of 10 or more77years, biennial or annual mammography screening is recommended.2. For women older than the age of 55 years with average risk for breastcancer, mammography screening is recommended every 3 to 5 years.3. For women older than the age of 70 with average risk for breast cancer,annual screening mammography is not recommended.4. Starting at age 40 years, all women with average risk for breast cancershould have annual clinical breast examination and mammographyscreening.78Answer Key1. Ans: 4 Morphine is usually not prescribed for neuropathic pain because painrelief response is poor. Other medications, some antidepressants (e.g.,imipramine) and some anticonvulsants (e.g., carbamazepine and gabapentin),provide better relief. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 1 Analgesic drugs are the first-line treatment for cancer painmanagement. If pain is not controlled by medication, other options areavailable, including radiation, surgery, and nerve blocks. Focus:Prioritization.3. Ans: 2 Asking the patient to describe the pain is the first step. The ABCDEstep-by-step clinical approach includes ask, believe, choose, deliver, andempower (or enable). Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 2 Breakthrough pain is defined as rapid onset, short duration, andmoderate to severe; a temporary exacerbation related to poorly controlledaround-the-clock dosing of background pain. Frequent breakthrough painsuggests that the around-the-clock dosing needs reevaluation, so the nursewould contact the health care provider and advocate for a change ofmedication or dose or frequency. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 3 The nurse might ask any of these questions, but the most importantquestion is whether the HCP was notified and if any changes were made toaddress the patient's pain. If the HCP was not called during the night (whichis often the case), then the day shift nurse must assess the patient's currentpain, talk to him or her directly about last night's pain, and gather data aboutthe frequency of bolus doses and other options that were tried. Data aboutlast night's care should be available in the patient's record if it is notmentioned in report. Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 1 Oral hygiene is within the scope of duties of the UAP. It is theresponsibility of the nurse to observe response to treatments and to help thepatient deal with loss or anxiety. The UAP can be directed to weigh thepatient but should not be expected to know when to initiate thatmeasurement. Focus: Delegation.7. Ans: 4 The patient's physical condition is currently stable, but emotionalneeds are affecting his or her ability to receive the information required tomake an informed decision. The other concepts are relevant, but if the patientleaves the clinic, the interventions may be delayed or ignored. Focus:Prioritization.8. Ans: 1 Pancreatic cancer is more common in African Americans, men, andsmokers. Other associated factors include older age, alcohol use, diabetes,obesity, history of pancreatitis, exposure to organic chemicals, consumptionof a high-fat diet, and previous abdominal irradiation. Focus: Prioritization.799. Ans: 2, 3, 5, 6 Mouthwash should not include alcohol because it has a dryingaction that leaves the mucous membranes more vulnerable. Insertion ofsuppositories, probes, or tampons into the rectal or vaginal cavity is notrecommended. All other options are appropriate. Focus: Prioritization.10. Ans: 2 Administering enemas and antibiotics is within the scope of practiceof LPNs/LVNs. Although some states and facilities may allow the LPN/LVNto administer blood, in general, administering blood, providing preoperativeteaching, and assisting with central line insertion are the responsibilities ofthe RN. Focus: Assignment.11. Ans: 3 The LPN/LVN will know the standard seven warning signs and caneducate through standard teaching programs. The health care providerperforms the physical examinations and recommends diagnostic testing. Thenutritionist can give information about diet. The RN has primaryresponsibility for educating people about risk factors. Focus: Assignment.12. Ans: 3 The nurse should assess what the patient means by having “controlover my own life and death.” This could be an indirect statement of suicidalintent. A patient who believes he will be cured should also be assessed formisunderstanding what the HCP said; however, the patient may need to usedenial as a temporary defense mechanism. Acknowledgment that thetreatments are for control of symptoms and plans for the immediate futuresuggest an understanding of what the HCP said. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 3 The UAP can observe the amount that the patient eats (or what isgone from the tray) and report to the nurse. Assessing patterns of fatigue andskin reaction is the responsibility of the RN. The initial recommendation forexercise should come from the health care provider. Focus: Delegation.14. Ans: 4 Age, malignancy, immunocompromised conditions (e.g., humanimmunodeficiency virus), and immunosuppressive medications increase therisk for herpes zoster. Lidocaine patches, gabapentinoids (e.g., gabapentin),and tricyclic antidepressants (e.g., imipramine) are first-line choices forpostherpetic neuralgia, which can be a long-term sequela to herpes zoster.However, the American Geriatrics Society recommends that tricyclics shouldbe avoided for older adults because of side effects, such as confusion ororthostatic hypotension. Capsaicin patches are considered a second-lineoption. A lidocaine patch would be a good choice for this patient because itcan be applied to the local area with limited systemic effects. Focus:Prioritization.15. Ans: 3 Paresthesia is a side effect associated with some chemotherapy drugssuch as vincristine. The HCP can modify the dosage or discontinue the drug.Fatigue, nausea, vomiting, and anorexia are common side effects of manychemotherapy medications. The nurse can assist the patient by planning forrest periods, giving antiemetics as ordered, and encouraging small mealscontaining high-protein and high-calorie foods. Focus: Prioritization; TestTaking Tip: In caring for patients with cancer, many nursing interventions80target the common side effects of chemotherapy, including fatigue, nausea,vomiting, and anorexia.16. Ans: 3 First, the preceptor assesses the newly hired nurse's knowledge andbeliefs about cancer pain and treatment. The nurse has experience, but thatpast experience may be related to caring for patients with acute pain, such aspostoperative or acute exacerbations of disease. After assessing knowledge,the preceptor can then correct misconceptions or make suggestions forfurther study. Reassessing the patients together could be a learningopportunity. Writing an incident report and going to the nurse managermight occur if the new nurse is unable to adapt and correct behavior. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Recall that the first step in the nursingprocess is always assessment. In this case, the new nurse's performance is thefocus of the preceptor's assessment.17. Ans: 1 The white blood cell count is especially important becausechemotherapy can decrease white blood cells, particularly neutrophils(known as neutropenia). This leaves the patient vulnerable to infection. Theother tests are important in the total management but are less directly specificto chemotherapy. Focus: Prioritization.18. Ans: 3 Giving medications is within the scope of practice of the LPN/LVN.Assisting the patient with oral hygiene should be delegated to unlicensedassistive personnel, but the nurse should give specific instructions related tothe condition of the patient's mouth. Explaining contraindications is theresponsibility of the RN. Recommendations for saliva substitutes shouldcome from the health care provider or pharmacist. Focus: Assignment.19. Ans: 1 Chemotherapy drugs should be given by nurses who have receivedadditional training in how to safely prepare and deliver the drugs and protectthemselves and others from exposure. The other options are relevant, but thegeneral principles of drug administration apply. Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 1, 3, 2, 4 Tumor lysis syndrome is an emergency involving electrolyteimbalances and potential renal failure. A patient scheduled for surgeryshould be assessed before leaving the unit, and any final preparations forsurgery should be completed. A patient with breakthrough pain needs athorough pain assessment, an investigation of pain patterns, and a chartreview of all attempted pharmaceutical and nonpharmaceuticalinterventions; the health care provider may need to be contacted for a changeof dosage or medication. Anticipatory nausea and vomiting has apsychogenic component that requires assessment, teaching, reassurance, andadministration of antiemetics. Focus: Prioritization.21. Ans: 1 Back pain is an early sign of spinal cord compression occurring in95% of patients. The other symptoms are later signs. Focus: Prioritization.22. Ans: 2, 6, 1, 3, 4, 5 Determine level of consciousness and responsivenessalong with changes from baseline. Oxygen should be administeredimmediately in the presence of respiratory distress or risk for decreased81oxygenation and perfusion. Pulse oximetry can be used for continuousmonitoring. Adequate pulse, blood pressure, and respirations are requiredfor cerebral perfusion. Increased temperature may signal infection or sepsis.Blood glucose levels should be checked even if the patient does not havediabetes. Severe hypoglycemia should be immediately treated per protocol.Electrolyte and ammonia levels are relevant data for this patient, andabnormalities in these parameters may be contributing to change in mentalstatus. (Note: Laboratory results [i.e., electrolytes and ammonia levels] maybe concurrently available; however, the nurse should systematically look atdata. Look at electrolytes first because these are more commonly ordered.The nurse may have to remind the health care provider to order the ammonialevel if the patient with a hepatic disorder is having a change in mentalstatus.) Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: For patients who have asudden change in mental status or a decreased level of consciousness, assumethat the brain is experiencing decreased perfusion, decreased oxygenation, orboth until proven otherwise. Giving oxygen and glucose are brain cell–preserving interventions that must occur within several minutes.23.The superior vena cava returns blood from the head, neck, and upperextremities to the heart. Compression or obstruction of the vessel leads tocongestion of the blood, which causes the early manifestation of edema in the82face. This is more noticeable when the patient is in a supine position. Edemaof the upper body can progress. Stridor caused by narrowing of the pharynxor larynx is an ominous sign. Late symptoms include hemorrhage, cyanosis,mental status changes, decreased cardiac output, and hypotension. Focus:Prioritization.24. Ans: 2 The normal range for calcium is 9.0 to 10.5 mg/dL (2.25 to2.75 mmol/L). Potentially life-threatening hypercalcemia can occur in cancerswith destruction of bone. Other laboratory values are pertinent for overallpatient management but are less specific to bone cancers. Focus:Prioritization.25. Ans: 2, 4 Debulking of tumor and laminectomy are palliative procedures.These patients can be placed in the same room. The patient with a lowneutrophil count and the patient who had a recent bone marrowtransplantation need protective isolation. The patient who is undergoingbrachytherapy needs a private room because radiation is being emitted whilethe implant is in place. The patient with terminal cancer needs comfortmeasures, such as privacy, family members at the bedside, and symptomrelief. In addition, observing a roommate who has end-of-life symptomscould be very stressful for another patient. Focus: Assignment.26. Ans: 3 The patient is not coping with the recent diagnosis of cancer andprospect of losing his leg. His decision to go hiking may be a form of denialor possibly a veiled suicide threat. It is also possible that he has decided notto have any treatment; however, the nurse needs to make additionalassessment about his decision and actions and help him to discussalternatives and consequences. This situation is complex, but if he leaves thehospital, there may be no chance to address any other issues. Focus:Prioritization.27. Ans: 2 Tumor lysis syndrome can result in severe electrolyte imbalances andpotential kidney failure. The other laboratory values are important to monitorto identify general chemotherapy side effects but are less pertinent to tumorlysis syndrome. Focus: Prioritization.28. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 5 At 21 years of age, women should have a Pap smear,regardless of sexual activity. African-American men starting at age 45 yearsshould talk to their health care providers about prostate cancer and riskversus benefits of prostate-specific antigen testing. Colonoscopy and annualfecal occult blood testing are recommended for those with average riskstarting at age 50 years. Annual mammograms are recommended for womenat the age of 45 to 54 years. (See answer 40 for additional information aboutbreast cancer screening.) Women who have had a total hysterectomy forreasons other than cancer do not need a Pap test. Focus: Prioritization; TestTaking Tip: Cancer screening guidelines are constantly being updated andrevised. The American Cancer Society is a good resource for this information(http://www.cancer.org/healthy/findcancerearly/cancerscreeningguidelines/americancancer-society-guidelines-for-the-early-detection-of-cancer).8329. Ans: 2 Hyponatremia is a concern; therefore, fluid restrictions would beprescribed. Urinalysis is less pertinent; however, the nurse should monitorfor changes in urine specific gravity. The diet may need to include sodiumsupplements. Fluid bolus is unlikely for patients with SIADH; however, IVnormal saline or hypertonic saline solutions may be given very cautiously.Focus: Prioritization.30. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 6 Measuring vital signs and reporting on specific parameters,practicing good hand washing, and gathering equipment are within the scopeof duties for a UAP. Assessing for symptoms of infections andsuperinfections is the responsibility of the RN. Focus: Delegation.31. Ans: 2 An LPN/LVN is versed in medication administration and able toteach patients standardized information. The other options require more indepthassessment, planning, and teaching, which should be performed by theRN. Helping patients with smoking cessation is a Core Measure. Focus:Assignment.32. Ans: 1 Morphine elixir is the therapy of choice because it is thought toreduce anxiety and the subjective sensation of air hunger. It also increasesvenous capacitance. End-of-life care should not include aggressive measuressuch as intubation or resuscitation. Support and comfort are always welcome,but in this case, there is an option that would offer some physical relief for thepatient. Focus: Prioritization.33. Ans: 3 Contact the charge nurse about the patient assignment. All nurses canassess patients, IV sites, and infusions; however, chemotherapy medicationsrequire special expertise. Asking the nurse to stay is not the best solutionbecause the care of the patient and the effects of the medication continue afterthe infusion has been completed. Asking about or looking up the side effectsof the drug is okay for personal information, but lack of chemotherapycertification is still an issue. In addition, knowing how to properlydiscontinue the infusion and dispose of the equipment are essential forpersonal safety and the safety of others. (Note to students: Facility policiesmay vary regarding chemotherapy certification. In your future career, foryour safety and the safety of your patients, find out what the facility policy isand pursue certification as needed.) Focus: Prioritization.34. Ans: 2 If the radiation implant has obviously been expelled (e.g., is on thebed linens), use a pair of forceps to place the radiation source in a leadcontainer. The other options would be appropriate after safety of the patientand personnel are ensured. Focus: Prioritization.35. Ans: 3 First, the charge nurse must try to find out what Nurse A is thinkingand feeling. After the underlying issue is discovered, a plan can be made toassist her (e.g., referral to counseling or in-service training). The charge nurseshould try to avoid being too draconian with the staff by insisting that theyswitch back to the original assignments or too condescending by lecturingthem about patients’ rights. Nurses frequently can and do switch patients to84help each other out, but the charge nurse should always be informed beforemaking the switch. Focus: Assignment, Supervision.36. Ans: 2 Incident pain is pain that is associated with an event, such as walking,position change, or coughing. In this case, movement is the incident thatcauses pain and the patient's reaction to protect the arm. Pain 30 to 45minutes before the next scheduled dose is breakout pain. Burning andtingling are descriptors of neuropathic pain. Depression and withdrawalcould occur with all types of pain, especially severe chronic pain. Whenfriends and family are not available, the nurse could try other forms ofdistraction. Focus: Prioritization.37. Ans: 4 Bisphosphonate medications are used for patients with cancer help torelieve bone pain associated with primary bone cancer or metastasis and toreduce the risk of fractures. They also lower the calcium level in the blood.Focus: Prioritization.38. Ans: 2 Lorazepam is a benzodiazepine, and it is not a first-line drug forcancer pain. It can be used for anxiety, insomnia, alcohol withdrawal, andmuscle spasms and may be used in combination with other antiemetics forcancer-induced nausea and vomiting. If the trigger factors for anxiety areidentified, the nursing staff can plan nonpharmaceutical interventions. Focus:Prioritization.39. Ans: 1 Primary cancers (lung, prostate, breast, and colon) may metastasize tothe spine. In spinal cord compression, back pain is a common early symptom.Later symptoms include weakness, loss of sensation, urinary retention orincontinence, and constipation. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip:Reports of pain in distal areas, worsening pain, or difficulty controlling paincan signal metastasis or reoccurrence, which is always a concern for cancerpatients. Pain should be reported to the health care provider for evaluation.40. Ans: 1 Recent guidelines from the American Cancer Society and theAmerican Society of Clinical Oncology include specific recommendations forscreening based on age include the following:• Between ages 40 and 44 years, women can be offered annual screening.• Starting at age 45 years, for women at average risk for breast cancer, regularscreening mammography is recommended.• For women 45 to 54 years old, annual screening mammography isrecommended.• For women 55 years and older, either biennial screening or continuingannual screening may be appropriate.• At any age, as long as they are in good general health and have a lifeexpectancy of at least 10 years, older women should continue screeningmammography.• At any age, average-risk women should not undergo a clinical breastexamination for breast cancer screening.85Focus: Prioritization.86C H A P T E R 387Immunologic Problems88Questions1. When scheduling a patient for skin testing for allergies, which information ismost important for the allergy clinic nurse to include in patient teaching?1. Avoid taking antihistamines before the skin testing.2. Skin testing may be done with an intradermal injection.3. Swelling and itching may occur at the site of the skin testing.4. Patient will need to wait in the clinic for 20 minutes after the testing.2. Which finding will be most important for the nurse to report to the healthcare provider about a patient who is taking prednisone chronically after anorgan transplant?1. Multiple arm bruises2. Sodium level of 146 mEq/dL (146 mmol/L)3. Blood glucose of 110 mg/dL (6.1 mmol/L)4. Black-colored stools3. When the occupational health nurse is teaching unlicensed assistivepersonnel (UAP) about bloodborne pathogen exposure and humanimmunodeficiency virus (HIV) risk, which information is most important toemphasize?1. Occupational transmission of HIV from patients to health care workers isrelatively rare.2. Occupational exposure to HIV-containing fluids should be reportedimmediately to the supervisor.3. Treatment for occupational exposure to HIV may include use ofantiretroviral medications.4. Postexposure treatment will include HIV testing at baseline and at severalintervals after the exposure.4. A patient in the allergy clinic who has a rash has received diphenhydramine50 mg PO. Which patient information is most indicative of a need for actionby the nurse?1. The patient is preparing to drive home.2. The patient reports itching at the site of the rash.3. The patient has a history of constipation.4. The patient states, “My mouth feels so very dry!”5. After change-of-shift report, which newly admitted patient should the nurseassess first?1. A patient with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) whose CD4 count is45 mm3 (45 cells/mcL)2. A patient with acute kidney transplant rejection who has a scheduled dose89of prednisone due3. A patient with graft-versus-host disease who has frequent liquid stools4. A patient with hypertension who has angioedema after receiving lisinopril6. A few minutes after the nurse has given an intradermal injection of anallergen to a patient who is undergoing skin testing for allergies, the patientreports feeling anxious, short of breath, and dizzy. Which action included inthe emergency protocol should the nurse take first?1. Start oxygen at 6 L/min using a face mask.2. Obtain IV access with a large-bore IV catheter.3. Give epinephrine 0.5 mg intramuscularly.4. Administer albuterol per nebulizer mask.7. The nurse manager in a public health department is implementing a plan toreduce the incidence of infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)in the community. Which nursing action will be delegated to unlicensedassistive personnel (UAP) working for the agency?1. Supplying injection drug users with sterile injection equipment such asneedles and syringes2. Interviewing patients about behaviors that indicate a need for annual HIVtesting3. Teaching high-risk community members about the use of condoms inpreventing HIV infection4. Assessing the community to determine which population groups to targetfor education8. The nurse is supervising a student nurse who is caring for a patient withhuman immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The patient has severe esophagitiscaused by Candida albicans. Which action by the student requires the mostrapid intervention by the nurse?1. Putting on a mask and gown before entering the patient's room2. Giving the patient a glass of water after administering the prescribed oralnystatin suspension3. Suggesting that the patient should order chile con carne or chicken soup forthe next meal4. Placing a “No Visitors” sign on the door of the patient's room9. The nurse is evaluating a patient with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)who is receiving trimethoprim–sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) as a treatmentfor Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia. Which information is most important tocommunicate to the health care provider?1. The patient reports a blistering rash.2. The patient's fluid intake is 2 L/day.3. The patient's potassium is 3.4 mg/dL (3.4 mmol/L).904. The patient enjoys spending time outside in the sun.10. The nurse is working with a patient who has a new diagnosis of humanimmunodeficiency virus (HIV) and who reports current use of injectableheroin and methamphetamine. Which actions by the nurse are appropriate?Select all that apply.1. Refer the patient to a substance abuse treatment program.2. Plan for the patient to participate in a needle exchange program.3. Coordinate the patient's schedule for directly observed antiretroviral drugtreatment.4. Instruct the patient that ongoing injectable drug use is a contraindicationfor antiretroviral therapy.5. Provide patient education about the risk of transmitting HIV to otherswhen sharing needles.11. A patient with newly diagnosed acquired immunodeficiency syndrome(AIDS) has a 6-mm induration at 48 hours after a skin test for tuberculosis(TB). Which action will the nurse anticipate taking next?1. Arrange for a chest x-ray to check for active TB.2. Tell the patient that the TB test results are negative.3. Teach the patient about multidrug treatment for TB.4. Schedule TB skin testing again in 12 months.12. The nurse is working in a hospice facility for patients with acquiredimmunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). The facility is staffed with LPNs/LVNsand unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP). Which action will the nurse assignto the LPN/LVN?1. Assessing patients’ nutritional needs and individualizing diet plans toimprove nutrition2. Collecting data about the patients’ responses to medications used for painand anorexia3. Developing UAP training programs about how to lower the risk forspreading infections4. Assisting patients with personal hygiene and other activities of daily livingas needed13. A patient who has received a kidney transplant has been admitted to themedical unit with acute rejection and is receiving IV cyclosporine andmethylprednisolone. Which staff member is best to assign to care for thispatient?1. RN who floated to the medical unit from the coronary care unit for the day2. RN with 3 years of experience in the operating room who is orienting to themedical unit3. RN who has worked on the medical unit for 5 years and is working adouble shift today914. Newly graduated RN who needs experience with IV medicationadministration14. The nurse is caring for a patient with rheumatoid arthritis who is takingnaproxen twice a day to reduce inflammation and joint pain. Which symptomis most important to communicate to the health care provider?1. Joint pain worse in the morning2. Dry eyes bilaterally3. Round and moveable nodules under the skin4. Dark-colored stools15. Which of these patients cared for by the nurse in the clinic presents thehighest risk for infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) duringsexual intercourse?1. Uninfected man who reports performing oral intercourse with an HIVinfectedwoman2. Uninfected man who is the receiver during anal intercourse with an HIVinfectedman3. Uninfected woman who has had vaginal intercourse with an HIV-infectedman4. Uninfected woman who has performed oral intercourse with an HIVinfectedwoman16. A patient with a history of liver transplantation is receiving cyclosporine,prednisone, and mycophenolate. Which finding is of most concern?1. Gums that appear very pink and swollen2. Blood glucose level of 162 mg/dL (9 mmol/L)3. Nontender lump above the clavicle4. Grade 1 + pitting edema in the feet and ankles17. A patient with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) who has been startedon antiretroviral therapy is seen in the clinic for follow-up. Which test will bebest to monitor when determining the response to therapy?1. CD4 level2. Complete blood count3. Total lymphocyte percent4. Viral load18. A hospitalized patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)has wasting syndrome. Which nursing action is appropriate to assign to anLPN/LVN who is providing care to this patient?1. Administering oxandrolone 5 mg/day2. Assessing the patient for other nutritional risk factors3. Developing a plan of care to improve the patient's appetite4. Providing instructions about a high-calorie, high-protein diet9219. The nurse assesses a 24-year-old patient with rheumatoid arthritis who isconsidering using methotrexate for treatment. Which patient information ismost important to communicate to the health care provider?1. The patient has many concerns about the safety of the drug.2. The patient has been trying to get pregnant.3. The patient takes a daily multivitamin tablet.4. The patient says that she has taken methotrexate in the past.20. An 18-year-old college student with an exacerbation of systemic lupuserythematosus (SLE) has been receiving prednisone 20 mg/day for 4 days.Which action prescribed by the health care provider is most important for thenurse to question?1. Discontinue prednisone after today's dose.2. Give a “catch-up” dose of varicella vaccine.3. Check the patient's C-reactive protein level.4. Administer ibuprofen 800 mg PO TID.21. A patient with wheezing and coughing caused by an allergic reaction isadmitted to the emergency department. Which medication will the nurseanticipate administering first?1. Methylprednisolone 100 mg IV2. Cromolyn 20 mg via nebulizer3. Albuterol 3 mL via nebulizer4. Aminophylline 500 mg IV22. A patient with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is admitted to thehospital with acute joint inflammation. Which information obtained in thelaboratory testing will be of highest concern to the nurse?1. Elevated blood urea nitrogen level2. Increased C-reactive protein level3. Positive antinuclear antibody test result4. Positive lupus erythematosus cell preparation23. The nurse obtains this information when assessing a patient with humanimmunodeficiency virus (HIV) who is taking antiretroviral therapy. Whichfinding is most important to report to the health care provider?1. The blood glucose level is 144 mg/dL (8 mmol/L).2. The hemoglobin level is 10.9 g/dL (109 g/L).3. The patient reports frequent nausea.4. The patient's viral load has increased.24. Initiation of subcutaneous etanercept for a patient with rheumatoid arthritisis being considered. Which patient information is most important for thenurse to communicate with the health care provider?931. The patient is currently taking methotrexate.2. The patient has a positive tuberculin skin test result.3. The patient has had type 2 diabetes for 5 years.4. The patient is anxious about having to self-inject.25. The hospital employee health nurse is completing a health history for anewly hired staff member. Which information given by the new employeemost indicates the need for further nursing action before the new employeebegins orientation to patient care?1. The employee takes enalapril for hypertension.2. The employee has allergies to bananas, avocados, and papayas.3. The employee received a tetanus vaccination 3 years ago.4. The employee's tuberculin skin test has a 5-mm induration at 48 hours.26. A patient who has human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and is takingnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors and a protease inhibitor isadmitted to the psychiatric unit with a panic attack. Which information aboutthe patient is most important to discuss with the health care provider?1. The patient exclaims, “I’m afraid I’m going to die right here!”2. The prescribed patient medications include midazolam 2 mg IVimmediately.3. The patient is diaphoretic and tremulous and reports dizziness.4. The symptoms occurred suddenly while the patient was driving to work.27. A patient seen in the sexually transmitted disease clinic has just testedpositive for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) with a rapid HIV test.Which action will the nurse take next?1. Ask about patient risk factors for HIV infection.2. Send a blood specimen for Western blot testing.3. Provide information about antiretroviral therapy.4. Discuss the positive test results with the patient.28. Methylprednisolone 60 mg IV is prescribed for a patient who is experiencinga systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) exacerbation. Based on the label for themedication below, the nurse will administer _________________________ mL.9495Answer Key1. Ans: 1 Because antihistamine use before skin testing may prevent a reactionto an allergen, it is important that no antihistamine be taken before arrivingfor the skin testing, or the testing will have to be rescheduled. The otherinformation may also be included, but it is not as important as avoiding anyantihistamine before the skin testing takes place. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 4 Dark green or black stools may indicate gastrointestinal bleeding, apossible adverse effect of oral steroid use, and further assessment andtreatment are needed. Although thinning of the skin, electrolyte disturbances,and changes in glucose metabolism also occur with steroids, bruising andmild changes in sodium or glucose level do not require treatment. Focus:Prioritization.3. Ans: 2 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines indicate that ifpostexposure prophylaxis is to be used, antiretroviral drugs should be startedas soon as possible, preferably within hours of the exposure. It is importantthat staff understand that reporting the possible exposure is a priority so thatso that rapid assessment and treatment can be initiated. The other statementsare also true but will not impact on the efficacy of any needed treatment.Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 1 Sedation is a common effect of the first-generation antihistamines, andpatients should be cautioned against driving when taking medications suchas diphenhydramine. Itching of the rash is expected with an allergic reaction.The patient should be taught about how to manage common antihistamineside effects such as constipation and oral dryness, but these side effects arenot safety concerns. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 4 Because angioedema may cause airway obstruction, this patientshould be assessed for any difficulty breathing, and treatment should bestarted immediately. The other patients also will need to be assessed asquickly as possible, but the patient with potential airway difficulty will needthe most rapid care. Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 3 World Allergy Organization guidelines indicate that intramuscularepinephrine should be the initial drug for treatment of anaphylaxis. Givingepinephrine rapidly at the onset of an anaphylactic reaction may prevent orreverse cardiovascular collapse as well as airway narrowing caused bybronchospasm and inflammation. Oxygen use is also appropriate, but oxygendelivery will be effective only if airways are open. Albuterol may also beadministered to decrease airway narrowing but would not be the firsttherapy used for anaphylaxis. IV access will take longer to establish andshould not be the first intervention. Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 1 Supplying sterile injection supplies to patients who are at risk for HIVinfection can be done by staff members with UAP education. Assessing for96high-risk behaviors, education, and community assessment are RN-levelskills. Focus: Delegation.8. Ans: 2 Nystatin should be in contact with the oral and esophageal tissues aslong as possible for maximum effect. The other actions are also inappropriateand should be discussed with the student but do not require action asquickly. HIV-positive patients do not require droplet or contact precautionsor visitor restrictions to prevent opportunistic infections. Hot or spicy foodsare not usually well tolerated by patients with oral or esophageal fungalinfections. Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 1 Because TMP-SMX can cause Stevens-Johnson syndrome (a lifethreateningskin condition), a blistering rash indicates a need to discontinuethe medication immediately. Two L/day of fluid is adequate to preventcrystalluria and renal damage associated with TMP-SMX. TMP-SMX cancause hyperkalemia; the nurse will report the potassium level to the provider,but the low potassium level is not caused by the medication. Patient teachingabout photosensitivity is needed, but the nurse does not need guidance fromthe provider to implement this action. Focus: Prioritization.10. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 5 Current guidelines indicate that antiretroviral therapy for HIVshould be initiated as soon as possible after HIV diagnosis. Although ongoingsubstance abuse is a risk factor for poor adherence, antiretroviral therapy canbe initiated when strategies to improve adherence are used. Strategies includedirectly observing patients taking medications, needle exchange programs,and referring patients for substance abuse treatment. Focus: Prioritization.11. Ans: 1 According to National Institutes of Health guidelines, an indurationof 5 mm or greater indicates TB infection in patients with HIV and a chestradiograph will be needed to determine whether the patient has active orlatent TB infection. Teaching about multidrug therapy is needed if the patienthas active TB, but latent TB is treated with a single drug (usually isoniazid)only. Positive skin test results generally persist throughout the patient'slifetime and will not be repeated, although other tests such as follow-up chestradiographs and sputum testing may be used to evaluate for effective TBtreatment. Focus: Prioritization.12. Ans: 2 The collection of data used to evaluate the therapeutic and adverseeffects of medications is included in LPN/LVN education and scope ofpractice. Assessment, planning, and developing teaching programs are morecomplex skills that require RN education. Assistance with hygiene andactivities of daily living should be delegated to the UAP. Focus: Assignment,Delegation.13. Ans: 3 To be most effective, cyclosporine must be mixed and administered inaccordance with the manufacturer's instructions, so the RN who is likely tohave the most experience with the medication should care for this patient ormonitor the new graduate carefully during medication preparation andadministration. The coronary care unit float nurse and the nurse who is new97to the unit would not have experience with this medication. Focus:Assignment.14. Ans: 4 Naproxen, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, can causegastrointestinal bleeding, and the stool appearance indicates that blood maybe present in the stool. The health care provider should be notified so thatactions such as testing a stool specimen for occult blood and administeringproton pump inhibitors can be prescribed. The other symptoms are commonin patients with rheumatoid arthritis and require further assessment orintervention, but they do not indicate that the patient is experiencing adverseeffects from the medications. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 2 Because anal intercourse allows contact of the infected semen withmucous membrane and causes tearing of mucous membrane, there is a highrisk of transmission of HIV. HIV can be transmitted through oral or vaginalintercourse as well but not as easily. Focus: Prioritization.16. Ans: 3 Patients taking immunosuppressive medications are at increased riskfor development of cancer. A nontender swelling or lump may signify thatthe patient has lymphoma. The other data indicate that the patient isexperiencing common side effects of the immunosuppressive medications.Focus: Prioritization.17. Ans: 4 Viral load testing measures the amount of HIV genetic material in theblood, so a decrease in viral load indicates that the antiretroviral therapy iseffective. The CD4 level, total lymphocytes, and complete blood count willalso be used to assess the impact of HIV on immune function but will notdirectly measure the effectiveness of antiretroviral therapy. Focus:Prioritization.18. Ans: 1 Administration of oral medication is included in LPN/LVN educationand scope of practice. Assessment, planning of care, and teaching are morecomplex RN-level interventions. Focus: Assignment.19. Ans: 2 Methotrexate is teratogenic and should not be used by patients whoare pregnant. The health care provider will need to discuss the use ofcontraception during the time the patient is taking methotrexate. The otherpatient information may require further patient assessment or teaching butdoes not indicate that methotrexate may be contraindicated for the patient.Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 2 The varicella (chickenpox) vaccine is a live-virus vaccine and shouldnot be administered to patients who are receiving immunosuppressivemedications such as prednisone. The other medical actions may need somefurther clarification by the nurse. Prednisone doses should be taperedgradually when patients have received long-term steroid therapy, buttapering is not usually necessary for short-term prednisone use.Measurement of C-reactive protein level is not the most specific test formonitoring treatment, but the test is inexpensive and frequently used. Highdoses of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen are more98likely to cause side effects such as gastrointestinal bleeding but are useful intreating the joint pain associated with exacerbations of SLE. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Because even an attenuated virus may lead toserious infection in patients with inadequate immune function, think aboutthe patient's immune status whenever administering an attenuated live-virusvaccine such as measles, mumps, and rubella; varicella; or rotavirus.21. Ans: 3 Albuterol is the most rapidly acting of the medications listed.Corticosteroids are helpful in preventing and treating allergic reactions butare not rapidly acting. Cromolyn is used as a prophylactic medication toprevent asthma attacks but not to treat acute attacks. Aminophylline is not afirst-line treatment for bronchospasm. Focus: Prioritization.22. Ans: 1 A high number of patients with SLE develop nephropathy, so anincrease in blood urea nitrogen level may indicate a need for a change intherapy or for further diagnostic testing such as a creatinine clearance test orrenal biopsy. The other laboratory results are expected in patients with SLE.Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: When prioritizing which informationto discuss with a provider, consider which patient signs and symptoms aretypical of the patient's disease and which findings may indicatecomplications. New findings that may indicate disease complications shouldbe reported, but symptoms that are frequently seen as a part of the diseaseprocess are not usually a priority to report unless further treatment isnecessary.23. Ans: 4 The increase in viral load indicates ineffective therapy, which willrequire further evaluation and treatment. The patient may not be adhering tothe prescribed regimen, or resistance to the antiviral medications may havedeveloped. Nausea, anemia, and hyperglycemia are common adverse effectswith antiretroviral therapy and may require further evaluation, but the mostconcerning finding is the lack of effectiveness of the medications. Focus:Prioritization.24. Ans: 2 Tumor necrosis factor antagonists such as etanercept suppressimmune function and increase the risk for reactivation of latent tuberculosis(TB). Further assessment for and possible treatment of TB will be neededbefore starting etanercept therapy. The other data will be communicated andmay require patient monitoring or teaching but are not contraindications tostarting etanercept. Focus: Prioritization.25. Ans: 2 A high incidence of latex allergy in seen in individuals with allergicreactions to these fruits. More information or testing is needed to determinewhether the new employee has a latex allergy, which might affect the abilityto provide direct patient care. The other findings are important to include indocumenting the employee's health history but do not affect the ability toprovide patient care. Focus: Prioritization.26. Ans: 2 Because protease inhibitors decrease the metabolism of many drugs,including midazolam, serious toxicity can develop when protease inhibitors99are given with other medications. Midazolam should not be given to thispatient. The other patient data are consistent with the patient's diagnosis ofpanic attack and do not indicate an urgent need to communicate with theprovider. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Because the antiretroviraldrug combinations used to treat HIV infection affect the metabolism of manyother medications, investigate for possible drug interactions beforeadministration of any new medications in patients who are takingantiretrovirals.27. Ans: 4 A major purpose of HIV testing for asymptomatic patients is toensure that HIV-positive individuals are aware of their HIV status, takeactions to prevent HIV transmission, and effectively treat the HIV infection.According to current national guidelines, the other actions are alsoappropriate, but the initial action will be to communicate the test results tothe patient. Rapid HIV testing must be confirmed by another test, usually theWestern blot test. Antiretroviral therapy is recommended for all HIV-positivepatients. Risk factor information will be used in tracking patient contacts andin teaching the patient how to reduce the risk for transmission to others.Focus: Prioritization.28. Ans: 0.96 mL When administering endocrine medications such as steroidsthrough parenteral routes, the nurse should avoid rounding the medication.125 mg in 2 mL equals 60 mg in 0.96 mL. Focus: Prioritization.100C H A P T E R 4101Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-BaseBalance Problems102Questions1. The RN is admitting a client with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) to anacute care unit. The client describes an oral intake of about 1400 mL/day.What is the RN's priority concern?1. Ask the client about his or her bowel movements.2. Have the client complete a diet diary for the past 2 days.3. Instruct the client to increase oral intake to 2 to 3 L/day.4. Ask the client to describe his urine output.2. The client has fluid volume deficit related to excessive fluid loss. Whichaction related to fluid management should be delegated by the RN tounlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Administering IV fluids as prescribed by the physician2. Providing straws and offering fluids between meals3. Developing a plan for added fluid intake over 24 hours4. Teaching family members to assist the client with fluid intake3. The unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) reports to the nurse that a client'surine output for the past 24 hours has been only 360 mL. What is the nurse'spriority action at this time?1. Place an 18-gauge IV in the nondominant arm.2. Elevate the client's head of bed at least 45 degrees.3. Instruct the UAP to provide the client with a pitcher of ice water.4. Contact and notify the health care provider immediately.4. The client described in question 3 is also at risk for poor perfusion related todecreased plasma volume. Which assessment finding supports this risk?1. Flattened neck veins when the client is in the supine position2. Full and bounding pedal and post-tibial pulses3. Pitting edema located in the feet, ankles, and calves4. Shallow respirations with crackles on auscultation5. The nursing care plan for an older client with dehydration includesinterventions for oral health. Which interventions are within the scope ofpractice for an LPN/LVN being supervised by a nurse? Select all that apply.1. Reminding the client to avoid commercial mouthwashes2. Encouraging mouth rinsing with warm saline3. Assess skin turgor by pinching the skin over the back of the hand4. Observing the lips, tongue, and mucous membranes5. Providing mouth care every 2 hours while the client is awake6. Seeking a dietary consult to increase fluids on meal trays1036. The health care provider has written these orders for a client with a diagnosisof pulmonary edema. The client's morning assessment reveals boundingperipheral pulses, weight gain of 2 lb, pitting ankle edema, and moist cracklesbilaterally. Which order takes priority at this time?1. Weigh the client every morning.2. Maintain accurate intake and output records.3. Restrict fluids to 1500 mL/day.4. Administer furosemide 40 mg IV push.7. Which statement by a client with hypovolemia related to dehydration is thebest indicator to the nurse of the need for additional teaching?1. “I will drink 2 to 3 L of fluids every day.”2. “I will drink a glass of water whenever I feel thirsty.”3. “I will drink coffee and cola drinks throughout the day.”4. “I will avoid drinks containing alcohol.”8. The nurse has been floated to the telemetry unit for the day. The monitortechnician informs the nurse that the client has developed prominent Uwaves. Which laboratory value should be checked immediately?1. Sodium2. Potassium3. Magnesium4. Calcium9. A client's potassium level is 6.7 mEq/L (6.7 mmol/L). Which interventionshould the nurse delegate to the first-year student nurse whom he or she issupervising?1. Administer sodium polystyrene sulfonate 15 g orally.2. Administer spironolactone 25 mg orally.3. Assess the electrocardiogram (ECG) strip for tall T waves.4. Administer potassium 10 mEq (10 mmol/L) orally.10. A client is admitted to the unit with a diagnosis of syndrome ofinappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). For which electrolyteabnormality would the nurse be sure to monitor?1. Hypokalemia2. Hyperkalemia3. Hyponatremia4. Hypernatremia11. The charge nurse assigned the care of a client with acute kidney failure andhypernatremia to a new-graduated RN. Which actions can the new-graduateRN delegate to the unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)? Select all thatapply.1041. Providing oral care every 3 to 4 hours2. Monitoring for indications of dehydration3. Administering 0.45% saline by IV line4. Record urine output when client voids5. Assessing daily weights for trends6. Help the client change position every 2 hours12. An experienced LPN/LVN reports to the RN that a client's blood pressureand heart rate have decreased, and when his face was assessed, one sidetwitches. What action should the RN take at this time?1. Reassess the client's blood pressure and heart rate.2. Review the client's morning calcium level.3. Request a neurologic consult today.4. Check the client's pupillary reaction to light.13. The nurse is preparing to discharge a client whose calcium level was low butis now just barely within the normal range (9 to 10.5 mg/dL [2.25 to2.63 mmol/L]). Which statement by the client indicates the need for additionalteaching?1. “I will call my doctor if I experience muscle twitching or seizures.”2. “I will make sure to take my vitamin D with my calcium each day.”3. “I will take my calcium citrate pill every morning before breakfast.”4. “I will avoid dairy products, broccoli, and spinach when I eat.”14. Which order prescribed for a client with hypercalcemia would the nurse besure to question?1. 0.9% saline at 50 mL/hr IV2. Furosemide 20 mg orally each morning3. Apply cardiac telemetry monitoring4. Hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) 25 mg orally each morning15. The unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) asks the nurse why the client witha chronically low phosphorus level needs so much assistance with activitiesof daily living. What is the RN's best response?1. “The client's low phosphorus is probably due to malnutrition.”2. “The client is just worn out from not getting enough rest.”3. “The client's skeletal muscles are weak because of the low phosphorus.”4. “The client will do more for himself when his phosphorus level is normal.”16. The RN is reviewing the client's morning laboratory results. Which of theseresults is of most concern?1. Serum potassium level of 5.2 mEq/L (5.2 mmol/L)2. Serum sodium level of 134 mEq/L (134 mmol/L)3. Serum calcium level of 10.6 mg/dL (2.65 mmol/L)1054. Serum magnesium level of 0.8 mEq/L (0.4 mmol/L)17. Which client would the charge nurse assign to the step-down unit nursewho was floated to the intensive care unit for the day?1. A 68-year-old client on a ventilator with acute respiratory failure andrespiratory acidosis2. A 72-year-old client with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)and normal blood gas values who is ventilator dependent3. A newly admitted 56-year-old client with diabetic ketoacidosis receiving aninsulin drip4. A 38-year-old client on a ventilator with narcotic overdose and respiratoryalkalosis18. The client with respiratory failure is receiving mechanical ventilation andcontinues to produce arterial blood gas results indicating respiratory acidosis.Which change in ventilator setting should the nurse expect to correct thisproblem?1. Increase in ventilator rate from 6 to 10 breaths/min2. Decrease in ventilator rate from 10 to 6 breaths/min3. Increase in oxygen concentration from 30% to 40%4. Decrease in oxygen concentration from 40% to 30%19. Which actions should the nurse delegate to an unlicensed assistive personnel(UAP) for the client with diabetic ketoacidosis? Select all that apply.1. Checking fingerstick glucose results every hour2. Recording intake and output every hour3. Measuring vital signs every 15 minutes4. Assessing for indicators of fluid imbalance5. Notifying the provider of changes in glucose level6. Assisting the client to reposition every 2 hours20. The nurse is admitting an older adult client to the acute care medical unit.Which assessment factor alerts the nurse that this client has a risk for acidbaseimbalances?1. History of myocardial infarction (MI) 1 year ago2. Antacid use for occasional indigestion3. Shortness of breath with extreme exertion4. Chronic renal insufficiency21. A client with lung cancer has received oxycodone 10 mg orally for pain.When the student nurse assesses the client, which finding would the nurseinstruct the student to report immediately?1. Respiratory rate of 8 to 10 breaths/min2. Decrease in pain level from 6 to 2 (on a scale of 1 to 10)1063. Request by the client that the room door be closed4. Heart rate of 90 to 100 beats/min22. The unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) reports to the nurse that a clientseems very anxious, and vital sign measurement included a respiratory rateof 38 breaths/min. Which acid-base imbalance should the nurse suspect?1. Respiratory acidosis2. Respiratory alkalosis3. Metabolic acidosis4. Metabolic alkalosis23. A client is admitted to the oncology unit for chemotherapy. To prevent anacid-base problem, which finding would the nurse instruct the unlicensedassistive personnel (UAP) to report?1. Repeated episodes of nausea and vomiting2. Reports of pain associated with exertion3. Failure to eat all the food on the breakfast tray4. Client hair loss during the morning bath24. The client has a nasogastric (NG) tube connected to intermittent wallsuction. The student nurse asks why the client's respiratory rate and depthhas decreased. What is the nurse's best response?1. “It's common for clients with uncomfortable equipment such as NG tubesto have a lower rate of breathing.”2. “The client may have a metabolic alkalosis due to the NG suctioning, andthe decreased respiratory rate is a compensatory mechanism.”3. “Whenever a client develops a respiratory acid-base problem, decreasingthe respiratory rate helps correct the problem.”4. “The client is hypoventilating because of anxiety, and we will have to stayalert for the development of respiratory acidosis.”25. The client has an order for hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) 10 mg orally everyday. What should the nurse be sure to include in a teaching plan for thisdrug? Select all that apply.1. “Take this medication in the morning.”2. “This medication should be taken in two divided doses when you get upand when you go to bed.”3. “Eat foods with extra sodium every day.”4. “Inform your prescriber if you notice weight gain or increased swelling.”5. “You should expect your urine output to increase.”6. “Your health care provider may also prescribe a potassium supplement.”26. Which blood test result would the nurse be sure to monitor for the clienttaking hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ)?1. Sodium level1072. Potassium level3. Chloride level4. Calcium level27. The RN is providing care for a client diagnosed with dehydration andhypovolemic shock. Which prescribed intervention from the health careprovider should the RN question?1. Blood pressure every 15 minutes2. Place two 18-gauge IV lines3. Oxygen at 3 L via nasal cannula4. IV 5% dextrose in water (D5W) to run at 250 mL/hr28. The student nurse, under the supervision of an RN, is reviewing a client'sarterial blood gas results and notes an acute increase in arterial partialpressure of carbon dioxide (Paco2) to 51 mm Hg compared with the previousresults. Which statement by the student nurse indicates accurateunderstanding of acid-base balance for this client?1. “When the Paco2 is acutely elevated, the blood pH should be lower thannormal.”2. “This client should be taught to breathe and rebreathe in a paper bag.”3. “An elevated Paco2 always means that a client has an acidosis.”4. “When a client's Paco2 is increased, the respiratory rate should decrease tocompensate.”29. The nurse is providing care for several clients who are at risk for acid-baseimbalance. Which client is most at risk for respiratory acidosis?1. A 68-year-old client with chronic emphysema2. A 58-year-old client who uses antacids every day3. A 48-year-old client with an anxiety disorder4. A 28-year-old client with salicylate intoxication30. The nurse is caring for a client who experiences frequent generalized tonicclonicseizures associated with periods of apnea. The nurse must be alert forwhich acid-base imbalance?1. Respiratory alkalosis2. Respiratory acidosis3. Metabolic alkalosis4. Metabolic acidosis31. The nurse is completing a history for an older client at risk for an acidosisimbalance. Which questions would the nurse be sure to ask? Select all thatapply.1. “Which drugs to you take on a daily basis?”2. “Do you have any problems with breathing?”1083. “When was your last bowel movement?”4. “Have you experienced any activity intolerance or fatigue in the past 24hours?”5. “Over the past month have you had any dizziness or tinnitus?”6. “Do you have episodes of drowsiness or decreased alertness?”32. Which specific instruction does the charge nurse give the unlicensedassistive personnel (UAP) helping to provide care for a client who is at riskfor metabolic acidosis?1. Check to see that the client keeps his oxygen in place at all times.2. Inform the nurse immediately if the client's respiratory rate and depthincreases.3. Record any episodes of reflux or constipation.4. Keep the client's ice water pitcher filled at all times.109Answer Key1. Ans: 3 An adult should take in about 2 to 3 L of fluid daily from food andliquids. Although the RN would want to know about bowel movements,dietary intake, and urine output, in this case, the priority is that the client isnot taking in enough oral fluids. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 2 UAPs can reinforce additional fluid intake when it is part of the careplan. Administering IV fluids, developing plans, and teaching familiesrequire additional education and skills that are within the scope of practice ofan RN. Focus: Delegation, Supervision; Test Taking Tip: The nurse must befamiliar with the scope of practice for UAPs before delegating client caretasks. UAP scope of practice includes checking vital signs, tasks associatedwith activities of daily living such as bathing and oral care, feeding, andrecording intake and output. UAPs can provide items such as drinkingstraws and can encourage and remind clients about instructions from thenurse such as increasing fluid intake.3. Ans: 4 The minimum amount of urine per day needed to excrete toxic wasteproducts is 400 to 600 mL. This minimum volume is called the obligatoryurine output. If the 24-hour urine output falls below the obligatory outputamount, wastes are retained and can cause lethal electrolyte imbalances,acidosis, and a toxic buildup of nitrogen. The client may need additionalfluids (IV or oral) after the cause of the low urine output is determined.Elevating the head of the bed will not help with urine output. Notifying thehealth care provider is the first priority in this case. Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 1 Normally, neck veins are distended when the client is in the supineposition. These veins flatten as the client moves to a sitting position. Theother three responses are characteristic of excess fluid volume. Focus:Prioritization.5. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 5 The LPN/LVN scope of practice and educational preparationincludes oral care and routine observation. State practice acts vary as towhether LPNs/LVNs are permitted to perform assessment. The client shouldbe reminded to avoid most commercial mouthwashes, which contain agentssuch as alcohol. To assess skin turgor in an older adult, skin tenting is bestchecked by pinching the skin over the sternum or on the forehead rather thanthe back of the hand. With aging, the skin loses elasticity and tents on handsand arms even when the adult is well hydrated. Initiating a dietary consult iswithin the purview of the RN or health care provider. Focus: Supervision.6. Ans: 4 Bilateral moist crackles indicate fluid-filled alveoli, which interfereswith gas exchange. Furosemide is a potent loop diuretic that will helpmobilize the fluid in the lungs. The other orders are important but are noturgent. Focus: Prioritization.7. ANS: 3 Mild dehydration is very common among healthy adults and is110corrected or prevented easily by matching fluid intake with fluid output.Teach all adults to drink more fluids, especially water. Beverages withcaffeine can increase fluid loss, as can drinks containing alcohol. Thesebeverages should not be used to prevent or treat dehydration. Focus:Prioritization.8. Ans: 2 Suspect hypokalemia and check the client's potassium level. CommonECG changes with hypokalemia include ST-segment depression, inverted Twaves, and prominent U waves. Clients with hypokalemia may also developheart block. Other abnormal electrolyte levels can affect cardiac rhythms, butthe occurrence of U waves is associated with low potassium levels. Focus:Prioritization.9. Ans: 1 The client's potassium level is high (normal range is 3.5 to 5 mEq/L or3.5 to 5 mmol/L). Sodium polystyrene sulfonate removes potassium from thebody through the gastrointestinal system. Spironolactone is a potassiumsparingdiuretic that may cause the client's potassium level to go even higher.A KCl supplement can also raise the potassium level even higher. Thebeginning nursing student does not have the skill to assess ECG strips. Focus:Delegation, Supervision.10. Ans: 3 SIADH results in a relative sodium deficit caused by excessiveretention of water. Focus: Prioritization.11. Ans: 1, 4, 6 Providing oral care, assisting clients to reposition, and recordingurine output are within the scope of practice of the UAP. Monitoring andassessing clients, as well as administering IV fluids, require the additionaleducation and skills of the RN. Focus: Assignment, Delegation, Supervision.12. Ans: 2 A positive Chvostek sign (facial twitching of one side of the mouth,nose, and cheek in response to tapping the face just below and in front of theear) is a neurologic manifestation of hypocalcemia. The heart rate may beslower or slightly faster than normal, with a weak, thready pulse. Severehypocalcemia causes severe hypotension. The LPN/LVN is experienced andpossesses the skills to accurately measure vital signs. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 4 Clients with low calcium levels should be encouraged to eat dairyproducts, seafood, nuts, broccoli, and spinach, which are all good sources ofdietary calcium. The other three options indicate correct understanding ofcalcium therapy. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 4 Calcium excretion is decreased with thiazide diuretics (e.g., HCTZ),so the calcium level is at risk for going even higher. Loop diuretics (e.g.,furosemide) increase calcium excretion. The addition of IV fluids and cardiacmonitoring are appropriate actions for monitoring and treating a client withhypercalcemia. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 3 A musculoskeletal manifestation of low phosphorus levels isgeneralized muscle weakness, which may lead to acute muscle breakdown(rhabdomyolysis). Phosphate is necessary for energy production in the formof adenosine triphosphate, and when not produced, leads to generalized111muscle weakness. Although the other statements are true, they do not answerthe UAP's question. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.16. Ans: 4 Although all of these laboratory values are outside of the normalrange, the magnesium level is furthest from normal. With a magnesium levelthis low, the client is at risk for ECG changes and life-threatening ventriculardysrhythmias. Focus: Prioritization.17. Ans: 2 The client with COPD, although ventilator dependent, is in the moststable condition of the clients in this group and should be assigned to thefloat nurse from the step-down unit. Clients with acid-base imbalances oftenrequire frequent laboratory assessment and changes in therapy to correcttheir disorders. In addition, the client with diabetic ketoacidosis is a newadmission and require an in-depth admission assessment. All three of theseclients need care from an experienced critical care nurse. Focus: Assignment.18. Ans: 1 The blood gas component responsible for respiratory acidosis iscarbon dioxide, thus increasing the ventilator rate will blow off more carbondioxide and decrease or correct the acidosis. Changes in the oxygen settingmay improve oxygenation but will not affect respiratory acidosis. Focus:Prioritization.19. Ans: 2, 3, 6 The UAP's training and education includes how to measure vitalsigns, record intake and output, and reposition clients. Performing fingerstickglucose checks and assessing clients requires additional education and skill,as possessed by licensed nurses. Notifying the provider of glucose changes iswithin the scope of practice for licensed nurses. Some facilities may trainexperienced UAPs to perform fingerstick glucose checks and change theirrole descriptions to designate their new skills, but this task is beyond thenormal scope of practice of a UAP. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.20. Ans: 4 Risk factors for acid-base imbalances in older adults include chronickidney disease and pulmonary disease. Occasional antacid use will not causeimbalances, although antacid abuse is a risk factor for metabolic alkalosis.The MI occurred 1 year ago and is no longer a risk factor. Focus:Prioritization.21. Ans: 1 A decreased respiratory rate indicates respiratory depression, whichalso puts the client at risk for respiratory acidosis. All of the other findingsare important and should be reported to the RN, but the respiratory ratedemands urgent attention. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.22. Ans: 2 The client is most likely hyperventilating and blowing off carbondioxide. This decrease in carbon dioxide will lead to an increase in pH andcause respiratory alkalosis. Eliminating carbon dioxide would lead to analkalosis. Metabolic imbalances would be related to renal changes. Focus:Prioritization, Supervision.23. Ans: 1 Prolonged nausea and vomiting can result in acid deficit that can leadto metabolic alkalosis. The other findings are important and need to beassessed but are not related to acid-base imbalances. Focus: Prioritization,112Supervision.24. Ans: 2 Nasogastric suctioning can result in a decrease in acid componentsand metabolic alkalosis. The client's decrease in rate and depth of ventilationis an attempt to compensate by retaining carbon dioxide. The first responsemay be true, but it does not address all the components of the question. Thethird and fourth answers are inaccurate. Focus: Supervision, Prioritization.25. Ans: 1, 4, 5, 6 HCTZ is a thiazide diuretic. It should not be taken at nightbecause it will cause the client to wake up to urinate. This type of diureticcauses a loss of potassium, so the nurse should teach the client about eatingfoods rich in potassium and that the health care provider may prescribe apotassium supplement. Weight gain and increased edema should not occurwhile the client is taking this drug, so these should be reported to theprescriber. Focus: Prioritization.26. Ans: 2 Potassium is lost when a client is taking HCTZ, and potassium levelshould be monitored regularly. Focus: Prioritization.27. Ans: 4 To correct hypovolemic shock with dehydration, the client needs IVfluids that are isotonic and will increase intravascular volume, such asnormal saline. With D5W, the body rapidly metabolizes the dextrose and thesolution becomes hypotonic. All of the other interventions are appropriate fora client with shock. Focus: Prioritization.28. Ans: 1 This client's Paco2 is elevated (normal is 35 to 45 mm Hg). Wheneverthe Paco2 level changes acutely, the pH changes to the same degree, in theopposite direction. As the amount of CO2 begins to rise above normal in brainblood and tissues, these central receptors trigger the neurons to increase therate and depth of breathing (hyperventilation). For these reasons, answers 2,3, and 4 are inaccurate. Focus: Supervision, Prioritization.29. Ans: 1 Clients at greatest risk for acute acidosis are those with problems thatimpair breathing. Older adults with chronic health problems are at greaterrisk for developing acidosis. Whereas a client who misuses antacids is at riskfor metabolic alkalosis, a client with anxiety is at risk for respiratory alkalosis.A client with salicylate intoxication is at risk for metabolic acidosis. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Respiratory acid-base disorders are related torespiratory function. When a client has a chronic respiratory illness, he or sheis at risk for a respiratory acid-base imbalance.30. Ans: 4 Seizures may be associated with apnea and thus hypoxemia andlactic acidosis. Lactic acidosis, a form of metabolic acidosis, occurs when cellsuse glucose without adequate oxygen (anaerobic metabolism); glucose then isincompletely broken down and forms lactic acid. This acid releases hydrogenions, causing acidosis. Lactic acidosis occurs whenever the body has too littleoxygen to meet metabolic oxygen demands (e.g., heavy exercise, seizureactivity, reduced oxygen). Focus: Prioritization.31. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 6 Collect data about risk factors related to the development of113acidosis. Older adults may be taking drugs that disrupt acid-base balance,especially diuretics and aspirin. Ask about specific risk factors, such as anytype of breathing problem. Also ask about headaches, behavior changes,increased drowsiness, reduced alertness, reduced attention span, lethargy,anorexia, abdominal distention, nausea or vomiting, muscle weakness, andincreased fatigue. Ask the client to relate activities of the previous 24 hours toidentify activity intolerance, behavior changes, and fatigue. Answers 3 and 5are not common concerns with acidosis. Focus: Prioritization.32. Ans: 2 If acidosis is metabolic in origin, the rate and depth of breathingincrease as the hydrogen ion level rises. Breaths are deep and rapid and notunder voluntary control, a pattern called Kussmaul respiration. The clientmay not require oxygen. Although it's important to record reflux andconstipation, this is not related to metabolic acidosis nor is keeping the waterpitcher full specific to this condition. Focus: Supervision, Delegation.114C H A P T E R 5115Safety and Infection Control116Questions1. In which order will the nurse take these actions before doing woundirrigation and a dressing change for a client who has a wound infected withmethicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)?1. Don gloves.2. Put on gown.3. Perform hand hygiene.4. Place goggles over eyes.5. Put on mask to cover nose and mouth._____, _____, _____, _____, _____2. A client who has had recent exposure to Ebola while traveling in Africaarrives in the emergency department with fever, headache, vomiting, andmultiple ecchymoses. Which action should the nurse take first?1. Place the client in a private room.2. Obtain heart rate and blood pressure.3. Notify the hospital infection control nurse.4. Ask the client to describe type of Ebola exposure.3. A client who has been infected with the Ebola virus has an emesis of 750 mLof bloody fluid and complains of headache, nausea, and severelightheadedness. Which action included in the treatment protocol should thenurse take first?1. Give acetaminophen 650 mg PO.2. Administer ondansetron 4 mg IV.3. Infuse normal saline at 500 mL/hr.4. Increase oxygen flow rate to 6 L/min.4. The nurse is caring for a newly admitted client with increasing dyspnea,hypoxia, and dehydration who has possible avian influenza (“bird flu”).Which of these prescribed actions will the nurse implement first?1. Start oxygen using a nonrebreather mask.2. Infuse 5% dextrose in water at 100 mL/hr.3. Administer the first dose of oral oseltamivir.4. Obtain blood and sputum specimens for testing.5. The nurse is preparing to leave the room after performing oral suctioning ona client who is on contact and airborne precautions. In which order will thenurse perform the following actions?1. Remove N95 respirator.2. Take off goggles.3. Remove gloves.1174. Take off gown.5. Perform hand hygiene._____, _____, _____, _____, _____6. A client has been diagnosed with disseminated herpes zoster. Which personalprotective equipment (PPE) will the nurse need to put on when preparing toassess the client? Select all that apply.1. Surgical face mask2. N95 respirator3. Gown4. Gloves5. Goggles6. Shoe covers7. Four clients arrive simultaneously at the emergency department. Which clientrequires the most rapid action by the triage nurse to protect other clients frominfection?1. A 3-year-old client who has paroxysmal coughing and whose sibling haspertussis2. A 5-year-old client who has a new pruritic rash and a possible chickenpoxinfection3. A 62-year-old client who has an ongoing methicillin-resistant Staphylococcusaureus (MRSA) abdominal wound infection4. A 74-year-old client who needs tuberculosis (TB) testing after beingexposed to TB during a recent international airplane flight8. The nurse is caring for four clients who are receiving IV infusions of normalsaline. Which client is at highest risk for bloodstream infection?1. Client with an implanted port in the right subclavian vein2. Client who has a midline IV catheter in the left antecubital fossa3. Client who has a nontunneled central line in the left internal jugular vein4. Client with a peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) line in the rightupper arm9. The nurse is caring for a client who has been admitted to the hospital with aleg ulcer that is infected with vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus(VRSA). Which nursing action can be assigned to an LPN/LVN?1. Planning ways to improve the client's oral protein intake2. Teaching the client about home care of the leg ulcer3. Obtaining wound cultures during dressing changes4. Assessing the risk for further skin breakdown10. A hospitalized 88-year-old client who has been receiving antibiotics for 10days tells the nurse about having frequent watery stools. Which action willthe nurse take first?1181. Notify the health care provider about the stools.2. Obtain stool specimens for culture.3. Instruct the client about correct hand washing.4. Place the client on contact precautions.11. The nurse notes white powder on the arms and chest of a client who arrivesat the emergency department and reports possible anthrax contamination.Which action included in the hospital protocol for possible anthrax exposurewill the nurse take first?1. Notify hospital security personnel about the client.2. Escort the client to a decontamination room.3. Give ciprofloxacin 500 mg PO.4. Assess the client for signs of infection.12. A pregnant client in the first trimester tells the nurse that she was recentlyexposed to the Zika virus while traveling in Southeast Asia. Which action bythe nurse is most important?1. Arrange for testing for Zika virus infection.2. Discuss need for multiple fetal ultrasounds during pregnancy.3. Describe potential impact of Zika infection on fetal development.4. Assess for symptoms such as rash, joint pain, conjunctivitis, and fever.13. The nurse at the infectious disease clinic has four clients waiting to be seen.Which client should the nurse see first?1. Client who has a 16-mm induration after a tuberculosis (TB) skin test2. Client who has human immunodeficiency virus and a low CD4 count3. Client who has swine influenza (H1N1) and reports increased dyspnea4. Client who has been exposed to Zika virus and has a rash and joint pain14. The nurse notices that the health care provider omits hand hygiene afterleaving a client's hospital room. Which action by the nurse is best at thistime?1. Report the health care provider to the infection control department.2. Offer the health care provider an alcohol based hand sanitizing fluid.3. Provide the health care provider with a list of upcoming inservices on handhygiene.4. Remind the health care provider about the importance of minimizinginfection spread.15. A client with a vancomycin-resistant enterococcus (VRE) infection isadmitted to the medical unit. Which action can be delegated to the unlicensedassistive personnel (UAP) who is assisting with the client's care?1. Teaching the client and family members about means to preventtransmission of VRE1192. Communicating with other departments when the client is transported forordered tests3. Implementing contact precautions when providing care for the client4. Monitoring the results of ordered laboratory culture and sensitivity tests16. A client who has been diagnosed with possible avian influenza is admittedto the medical unit. Which prescribed action will the nurse take first?1. Place the client in an airborne isolation room.2. Initiate infusion of 500 mL of normal saline bolus.3. Ask the client about any recent travel to Asia.4. Obtain sputum specimen and nasal cultures.17. Which infection control activity should the charge nurse delegate to anexperienced unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Screening clients for upper respiratory tract symptoms2. Asking clients about the use of immunosuppressant medications3. Demonstrating correct hand washing to the clients’ visitors4. Disinfecting blood pressure cuffs after clients are discharged18. The nurse is preparing to change the linens on the bed of a client who has asacral wound infected by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA).Which personal protective equipment (PPE) items will be used? Select allthat apply.1. Gown2. Gloves3. Goggles4. Surgical mask5. N95 respirator19. A client who has frequent watery stools and a possible Clostridium difficileinfection is hospitalized with dehydration. Which nursing action should thecharge nurse assign to an LPN/LVN?1. Performing ongoing assessments to determine the client's hydration status2. Explaining the purpose of ordered stool cultures to the client and family3. Administering the prescribed metronidazole 500 mg PO to the client4. Reviewing the client's medical history for any risk factors for diarrhea20. Which action by the infection control nurse in an acute care hospital will bemost effective in reducing the incidence of health care–associated infections?1. Require nursing staff to don gowns to change wound dressings for allclients.2. Ensure that dispensers for alcohol-based hand rubs are available in allclient care areas.3. Screen all newly admitted clients for colonization or infection with120methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA).4. Develop policies that automatically start antibiotic therapy for clientscolonized by multidrug-resistant organisms.21. When the nurse is educating a group of women of childbearing age aboutthe Zika virus, which information will be included? Select all that apply.1. Women who are pregnant will be asked about possible Zika exposure ateach prenatal visit.2. Testing for recent infection with the Zika virus is available for women whomay have been exposed to Zika.3. There is a high risk for maternal death when women are infected with theZika virus during pregnancy.4. Women who are trying to get pregnant should avoid travel to geographicareas with active Zika virus transmission.5. Barrier methods such as condoms should be used during intercourse if thesex partner has possible Zika exposure.22. When the community health nurse is counseling a client who has an acuteZika virus infection, which information is most important to include?1. Drink fluids to prevent dehydration.2. Use acetaminophen to reduce pain and fever.3. Apply insect repellant frequently to prevent mosquito bites.4. Symptoms of Zika infection include fever, red eyes, rash, and joint pain.23. Which policy implemented by the infection control nurse will mosteffectively reduce the incidence of catheter-associated urinary tract infections(CAUTIs)?1. Limit the use of indwelling urinary catheters in all hospitalized clients.2. Ensure that clients with catheters have at least a 1500-mL fluid intake daily.3. Use urine dipstick testing to screen catheterized clients for asymptomaticbacteriuria.4. Require the use of antimicrobial/antiseptic-impregnated catheters forcatheterization.24. The nurse admits four clients with infections to the medical unit, but onlyone private room is available. Which client is most appropriate to assign tothe private room?1. Client with diarrhea caused by C. difficile2. Client with vancomycin-resistant enterococcus (VRE) infection3. Client with a cough who may have active tuberculosis (TB)4. Client with toxic shock syndrome and fever25. Which information about a client who has meningococcal meningitis is thebest indicator that the nurse can discontinue droplet precautions?1. Pupils are equal and reactive to light.1212. Appropriate antibiotics have been given for 24 hours.3. Cough is productive of clear, nonpurulent mucus.4. Temperature is lower than 100°F (37.8°C).26. While administering vancomycin 500 mg IV to a client with a methicillinresistantStaphylococcus aureus (MRSA) wound infection, the nurse noticesthat the client's neck and face are becoming flushed. Which action should thenurse take next?1. Discontinue the vancomycin infusion.2. Slow the rate of the vancomycin infusion.3. Obtain an order for an antihistamine.4. Check the client's temperature.27. A healthy 65-year-old client who cares for a newborn grandchild has a clinicappointment in May. The client needs several immunizations but tells thenurse, “I hate shots! I will only take one today.” Which immunization is mostimportant to give?1. Influenza2. Herpes zoster3. Pneumococcal4. Tetanus, diphtheria, pertussis28. The nurse is caring for a client who is intubated and receiving mechanicalventilation. Which nursing actions are most essential in reducing the client'srisk for ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP)? Select all that apply.1. Keep the head of the client's bed elevated to at least 30 degrees.2. Assess the client's readiness for extubation at least daily.3. Ensure that the pneumococcal vaccine is administered.4. Use a kinetic bed to continuously change the client's position.5. Provide oral care with chlorhexidine solution at least daily.29. The nurse is preparing to insert a peripherally inserted central catheter(PICC) in a client's left forearm. Which solution will be best for cleaning theskin prior to the PICC insertion?1. 70% isopropyl alcohol2. Povidone-iodine solution3. 0.5% chlorhexidine in alcohol4. Betadine followed by 70% isopropyl alcohol30. The nurse has received a needlestick injury after giving a client anintramuscular injection, but has no information about whether the client hashuman immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. What is the mostappropriate method of obtaining this information about the client?1. The nurse should personally ask the client to authorize HIV testing.1222. The charge nurse should tell the client about the need for HIV testing.3. The occupational health nurse should discuss HIV status with the client.4. HIV testing should be performed the next time blood is drawn for othertests.31. Which medication order for a client with a pulmonary embolism is mostimportant to clarify with the prescribing health care provider beforeadministration?1. Warfarin 1.0 mg PO2. Morphine 2 to 4 mg IV3. Cephalexin 250 mg PO4. Heparin infusion at 900 units/hr32. A client with atrial fibrillation is ambulating in the hallway on the coronarystep-down unit and suddenly tells the nurse, “I feel really dizzy.” Whichaction should the nurse take first?1. Help the client to sit down.2. Check the client's apical pulse.3. Take the client's blood pressure.4. Have the client breathe deeply.33. The nurse is supervising an LPN/LVN who says, “I gave the client withmyasthenia gravis 90 mg of neostigmine instead of the ordered 45 mg!” Inwhich order should the nurse perform the following actions?1. Assess the client's heart rate.2. Complete a medication error report.3. Ask the LPN/LVN to explain how the error occurred.4. Notify the health care provider of the incorrect medication dose._____, _____, _____, _____34. The nurse is caring for a confused and agitated client who has wristrestraints in place on both arms. Which action included in the client plan ofcare can be assigned to an LPN/LVN?1. Determining whether the client's mental status justifies the continued useof restraints2. Undoing and retying the restraints to improve client comfort3. Reporting the client's status and continued need for restraints to the healthcare provider4. Explaining the purpose of the restraints to the client's family members35. The nurse is checking medication prescriptions that were received bytelephone for a client with hypertensive crisis and tachycardia. Whichmedication is most important to clarify with the health care provider?1. Carvedilol 12.5 mg PO BID daily2. Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg PO daily1233. Labetalol 20 mg IV over a 2-min time period now4. Hydroxyzine 50 mg PO as needed (PRN) systolic blood pressure greaterthan 160 mm Hg36. A 70-kg client who has had unprotected sexual intercourse with a partnerwho has hepatitis B is to receive 0.06 mL/kg of hepatitis B immune globulin.The immune globulin is available in a 5-mL vial. The nurse will plan toadminister ____________________ mL.37. A 88-year-old client who has not yet had the influenza vaccine is admittedafter reporting symptoms of generalized muscle aching, cough, and runnynose starting about 24 hours previously. Which of these prescribedmedications is most important for the nurse to administer at this time?1. Oseltamivir 75 mg PO2. Guaifenesin 600 mg PO3. Acetaminophen 650 mg PO4. Influenza vaccine 180 mcg IM124Answer Key1. Ans: 3, 2, 5, 4, 1 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelinesrecommend initially hand hygiene and then donning of gown, mask, goggles,and finally gloves to protect staff members and limit the spread ofcontamination. Goggles and a mask (or use of a face shield) will be neededwith this dressing change because of the possibility of splashing duringwound irrigation. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 1 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines recommendthat the initial action be to place the client in a private room and implementstandard, contact, and droplet precautions. Further assessment of the type ofpossible Ebola exposure, obtaining vital signs, and notification of theinfection control nurse will also be needed but should be done after measuresto minimize transmission of Ebola are implemented. Focus: Prioritization;Test Taking Tip: When caring for a client with a communicable disease,consider that prevention of disease transmission to other clients, staff, andvisitors is usually the highest priority, even when the client is critically ill andneeds rapid implementation of other actions.3. Ans: 3 Because hypovolemia is a major concern with Ebola infection and IVfluid infusion has been demonstrated to improve outcomes, the nurse's firstaction will be to infuse normal saline. Treatment of nausea and headache areappropriate and should be implemented next. There is no indication that thisclient is hypoxemic, although clients with Ebola may develop multiorganfailure and require respiratory support. Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 1 Because the respiratory manifestations associated with avian influenzaare potentially life threatening, the nurse's initial action should be to startoxygen therapy. The other interventions should be implemented afteraddressing the client's respiratory problems. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 3, 2, 4, 1, 5 This sequence will prevent contact of the contaminatedgloves and gown with areas (e.g., the hair) that cannot be easily cleaned afterclient contact and stop transmission of microorganisms to the nurse and toother clients. If the nurse is wearing a disposable gown, the gown and glovescan be removed simultaneously by grasping the front of the gown andbreaking the ties and then peeling the gloves off while removing the gown.The correct method for donning and removal of PPE has been standardizedby agencies such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and theOccupational Safety and Health Administration. Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 2, 3, 4 Because herpes zoster (shingles) is spread through airborne meansand by direct contact with the lesions, the nurse should wear an N95respirator or high-efficiency particulate air filter respirator, a gown, andgloves. Surgical face masks filter only large particles and do not provideprotection from herpes zoster. Goggles and shoe covers are not needed for125airborne or contact precautions. Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 2 Varicella (chickenpox) is spread by airborne means and could berapidly transmitted to other clients in the emergency department. The childwith the rash should be quickly isolated from the other clients throughplacement in a negative-pressure room. Droplet or contact precautions (orboth) should be instituted for the clients with possible pertussis and MRSAinfection, but this can be done after isolating the child with possiblechickenpox. The client who has been exposed to TB does not place otherclients at risk for infection because there are no symptoms of active TB. Focus:Prioritization.8. Ans: 3 According to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines,several factors increase the risk for infection for this client: central lines areassociated with a higher infection risk, jugular vein lines are more prone toinfection, and the line is nontunneled. Peripherally inserted IV lines such asPICC lines and midline catheters are associated with a lower incidence ofinfection. Implanted ports are placed under the skin and are the least likelycentral line to be associated with catheter infection. Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 3 LPN/LVN education and scope of practice include performingdressing changes and obtaining specimens for wound culture. Teaching,assessment, and planning of care are complex actions that should be carriedout by the RN. Focus: Assignment.10. Ans: 4 The client's age, history of antibiotic therapy, and watery stoolssuggest that he may have C. difficile infection. The initial action should be toplace him on contact precautions to prevent the spread of C. difficile to otherclients. The other actions are also needed and should be taken after placingthe client on contact precautions. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip:Remember that implementation of infection control policies and precautionsis an independent nursing action, and it is your responsibility to promptlyimplement appropriate precautions and use of personal protective equipmentto prevent disease transmission.11. Ans: 2 To prevent contamination of staff or other clients by anthrax,decontamination of the client by removal and disposal of clothing andshowering are the initial actions in possible anthrax exposure. Assessment ofthe client for signs of infection should be performed after decontamination.Notification of security personnel (and local and regional law enforcementagencies) is necessary in the case of possible bioterrorism, but this shouldoccur after decontaminating and caring for the client. According to theCenters for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines, antibiotics should beadministered only if there are signs of infection or the contaminatingsubstance tests positive for anthrax. Focus: Prioritization.12. Ans: 1 Current guidelines recommend that pregnant women who areexposed to Zika virus be tested for infection. Fetal ultrasonography isrecommended for any pregnant woman who has had possible Zika virus126exposure, but multiple ultrasound studies will not be needed unless testresults are positive. Education about the effects of Zika infection on fetaldevelopment may be needed, but this is not the highest priority at this time.The nurse will assess for Zika symptoms, but testing for the virus will bedone even if the client is asymptomatic. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 3 The client with increased dyspnea should be seen first because rapidactions such as oxygen administration and IV fluids may be needed. Theother clients will require further assessment, counseling, or treatment, butthey do not have potentially life-threatening symptoms or diagnoses. Focus:Prioritization.14. Ans: 2 Because the most immediate need is to ensure that hand hygiene isaccomplished, the nurse should offer an alcohol-based cleaner to the healthcare provider. The other actions may also be needed, especially if there is apattern of nonadherence to hand hygiene, but further assessment is necessarybefore these actions are taken. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 3 All hospital personnel who care for the client are responsible forcorrect implementation of contact precautions. The other actions should becarried out by licensed nurses, whose education covers monitoring oflaboratory results, client teaching, and communication with otherdepartments about essential client data. Focus: Delegation.16. Ans: 1 The initial action should be to prevent transmission of avianinfluenza to other clients, visitors, or health care personnel through the use ofairborne, contact, and standard isolation precautions. Initiating IV fluids,determining whether the client has been exposed to avian influenza throughtravel, and obtaining cultures are also appropriate, but the highest priority isto prevent spread of infection. Focus: Prioritization.17. Ans: 4 The UAP can follow agency policy to disinfect items that come incontact with intact skin (e.g., blood pressure cuffs) by cleaning with chemicalssuch as alcohol. Teaching and assessment for upper respiratory tractsymptoms or use of immunosuppressants require more education and abroader scope of practice, and these tasks should be performed by licensednurses. Focus: Delegation.18. Ans: 1, 2 A gown and gloves should be used when coming in contact withlinens that may be contaminated by the client's wound secretions. The otherPPE items are not necessary because transmission by splashes, droplets, orairborne means will not occur when the bed is changed. Focus: Prioritization.19. Ans: 3 LPN/LVN scope of practice and education include administration ofmedications. Assessment of hydration status, client and family education,and assessment of client risk factors for diarrhea should be done by the RN.Focus: Assignment.20. Ans: 2 Because the hands of health care workers are the most commonmeans of transmission of infection from one client to another, the mosteffective method of preventing the spread of infection is to make supplies for127hand hygiene readily available for staff to use. Wearing a gown to care forclients who are not on contact precautions is not necessary. Although somehospitals have started screening newly admitted clients for MRSA, this is notconsidered a priority action according to current national guidelines. Becauseadministration of antibiotics to individuals who are colonized by bacteriamay promote development of antibiotic resistance, antibiotic use should berestricted to clients who have clinical manifestations of infection. Focus:Prioritization.21. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 5 National guidelines recommend that all pregnant women beassessed for Zika exposure at each prenatal visit, that women who may havebeen exposed be tested, that women who are anticipating pregnancy shouldavoid travel to areas where they might be exposed to Zika, and that barriermethods be used if the sex partner has been exposed to Zika infection.Congenital defects to the fetus occur if there is Zika infection duringpregnancy, but the maternal infection is usually mild and nonfatal. Focus:Prioritization.22. Ans: 3 Prevention of Zika transmission is the priority because Zika infectionusually causes a relatively mild and short-duration illness. Becausemosquitos spread Zika infection from infected individuals to others, it isessential that the client use insect repellant consistently during the activeinfection. The other information is correct but will not assist in decreasing therisk to the community. Focus: Prioritization.23. Ans: 1 According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC),CAUTIs are the most common health care–acquired infection in the UnitedStates. Recommendations include avoiding the use of indwelling cathetersand the removal of catheters as soon as possible. Although a high fluid intakewill also help to reduce the risk for CAUTIs, 1500 mL may be excessive forsome clients. The CDC recommends against routine screening forasymptomatic bacteriuria. Antimicrobial catheters are a secondaryrecommendation and may be appropriate if other measures are not effectivein reducing the incidence of CAUTIs. Focus: Prioritization.24. Ans: 3 Clients with infections that require airborne precautions (e.g., TB)need to be in private rooms. Clients with infections that require contactprecautions (e.g., those with C. difficile VRE infections) should ideally beplaced in private rooms; however, they can be placed in rooms with otherclients with the same diagnosis. Standard precautions are required for theclient with toxic shock syndrome. Focus: Prioritization.25. Ans: 2 Current Centers for Disease Control and Prevention evidence-basedguidelines indicate that droplet precautions for clients with meningococcalmeningitis can be discontinued when the client has received antibiotictherapy (with drugs that are effective against Neisseria meningitidis) for 24hours. The other information may indicate that the client's condition isimproving but does not indicate that droplet precautions should bediscontinued. Focus: Prioritization.12826. Ans: 2 “Red man” syndrome occurs when vancomycin is infused tooquickly. Because the client needs the medication to treat the infection,vancomycin should not be discontinued. Antihistamines may help decreasethe flushing, but vancomycin should be administered over at least 60 minutesto avoid vasodilation. Although the client's temperature will be monitored, atemperature elevation is not the most likely cause of the client's flushing.Focus: Prioritization.27. Ans: 4 Individuals who have contact with infants should be immunizedagainst pertussis to avoid infection and to prevent transmission to the infant.The influenza and pneumococcal vaccines can be administered later in theyear, before the influenza season. The herpes zoster vaccine is important toprevent shingles in the client but does not need to be administered today.Focus: Prioritization.28. Ans: 1, 2, 5 The ventilator bundle developed by the Institute for HealthcareImprovement includes recommendations for continuous elevation of thehead of the bed, daily assessment for extubation readiness, and daily oralcare with chlorhexidine solution. Pneumococcal immunization will preventpneumococcal pneumonia, but it is not designed to prevent VAP. The use ofa kinetic bed may also be of benefit to the client, but it is not consideredessential. Focus: Prioritization.29. Ans: 3 Current Institute for Healthcare Improvement guidelines indicatethat chlorhexidine is more effective than the other options at reducing the riskfor central line–associated bloodstream infections. The other solutionsprovide some decrease in the number of microorganisms on the skin but arenot as effective as chlorhexidine. Focus: Prioritization.30. Ans: 3 The staff member who is most knowledgeable about the regulationsregarding HIV prophylaxis and about how to obtain a client's HIV statusand/or order HIV testing is the occupational health nurse. It is unethical forthe nurse to personally ask the client to consent to HIV testing or to performunauthorized HIV testing. The charge nurse is not responsible for obtainingthis information (unless the charge nurse is also in charge of occupationalhealth). Focus: Prioritization.31. Ans: 1 The Institute for Safe Medication Practices guidelines indicate that theuse of a trailing zero is not appropriate when writing medication ordersbecause the order can easily be mistaken for a larger dose (in this case,10 mg). The order should be clarified before administration. The other ordersare appropriate based on the client's diagnosis. Focus: Prioritization.32. Ans: 1 The first priority for an ambulating client who is dizzy is to preventfalls, which could lead to serious injury. The other actions are alsoappropriate but are not as high a priority. Focus: Prioritization.33. Ans: 1, 4, 3, 2 The first action after a medication error should be to assess theclient for adverse outcomes. The nurse should evaluate this client forsymptoms such as bradycardia and excessive salivation, which indicate129cholinergic crisis, a possible effect of excessive doses of anticholinesterasemedications such as neostigmine. The health care provider should be rapidlynotified so that treatment with atropine can be ordered to counteract theeffects of the neostigmine, if necessary. Determining the circumstances thatled to the error will help decrease the risk for future errors and will beneeded to complete the medication error report. Focus: Prioritization.34. Ans: 2 Hospital staff who have been trained in the appropriate application ofrestraints may reposition the restraints. Evaluation of the continued need forrestraints, communication with the provider about the client's status, andteaching of the family require RN-level education and scope of practice.Focus: Assignment.35. Ans: 4 Hydroxyzine is a first-generation antihistamine that is used to treatpatients with anxiety and pruritus. It is likely that the correct medication ishydralazine, a vasodilator that is used to treat hypertension. Hydroxyzineand hydralazine are “look-alike, sound-alike” drugs that have been identifiedby the Institute for Safe Medication Practices (ISMP) as being at high risk forinvolvement in medication errors. All treatment prescriptions that arecommunicated by telephone should be reconfirmed with the health careprovider; however, the most important order to clarify is the hydroxyzine,which is likely an error. Focus: Prioritization.36. Ans: 4.2 mL 0.06 mL × 70 kg = 4.2 mL Focus: Prioritization.37. Ans: 1 Because antivirals are most effective when used early in influenzainfection, the nurse should administer the oseltamivir as soon as possible todecrease the severity of the infection and risk of transmission to others.Guaifenesin and acetaminophen will help with the symptoms of cough andmuscle aching but will not shorten the course of the client's illness or decreaserisk of transmission. The influenza vaccine may still help in preventing futureinfluenza caused by another virus. Focus: Prioritization.130C H A P T E R 6131Respiratory Problems132Questions1. The nurse is providing care for a patient diagnosed with laryngeal cancerwho is receiving radiation therapy. The patient tells the nurse that he isexperiencing hoarseness and difficulty with speaking. What is the nurse'sbest response?1. “Let's elevate the head of your bed and see if that helps.”2. “Your voice should improve in 6 to 8 weeks after completion of theradiation.”3. “Sometimes patients also experience dry mouth and difficulty withswallowing.”4. “I will call your health care provider and let him know about this.”2. The nurse is supervising a nursing student providing care for a patient withshortness of breath who has expressed interest in smoking cessation. Whichquestions would the nurse suggest the student ask to determine nicotinedependence? Select all that apply.1. How soon after you wake up in the morning do you smoke?2. Do other members of your family smoke?3. Do you smoke when you are ill?4. Do you wake up in the middle of your sleep time to smoke?5. Do you smoke indoors or outside?6. Do you have a difficult time not smoking in places where it is not allowed?3. The RN clinical instructor is discussing a patient's oxygen-hemoglobindissociation curve with a student. The student states that the patient's oralbody temperature is elevated at 100.8°F (38.2°C). Which statement by thestudent indicates correct understanding of this patient's curve shift?1. “When a patient's body temperature is elevated, there is no change in theoxygen-hemoglobin dissociation curve.”2. “When a patient's body temperature is elevated, there is a shift to the leftbecause the oxygen tension level is lower.”3. “When a patient's body temperature is elevated, there is no shift in thecurve because the patient is using less oxygen.”4. “When the patient's body temperature is elevated, there is a shift to theright so that hemoglobin will dissociate oxygen faster.”4. An experienced LPN/LVN, under the supervision of the team leader RN, isassigned to provide nursing care for a patient with a respiratory problem.Which actions are appropriate to the scope of practice of an experiencedLPN/LVN? Select all that apply.1. Auscultating breath sounds2. Administering medications via metered-dose inhaler (MDI)1333. Completing in-depth admission assessment4. Checking oxygen saturation using pulse oximetry5. Developing the nursing care plan6. Evaluating the patient's technique for using MDIs5. The nurse is evaluating and assessing a patient with a diagnosis of chronicemphysema. The patient is receiving oxygen at a flow rate of 5 L/min bynasal cannula. Which finding concerns the nurse immediately?1. Fine bibasilar crackles2. Respiratory rate of 8 breaths/min3. The patient sitting up and leaning over the nightstand4. A large barrel chest6. The unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) tells the nurse that a patient who isreceiving oxygen at a flow rate of 6 L/min by nasal cannula is reporting nasalpassage discomfort. What intervention should the nurse suggest to the UAPto improve the patient's comfort for this problem?1. Humidify the patient's oxygen.2. Use a simple face mask instead of a nasal cannula.3. Provide the patient with an extra pillow.4. Have the patient sit up in a chair at the bedside.7. The RN is teaching an unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) to check oxygensaturation by pulse oximetry. What will the nurse be sure to tell the UAPabout patients with darker skin?1. “Be aware that patients with darker skin usually show a 3% to 5% higheroxygen saturation compared with light-skinned patients.”2. “Usually dark-skinned patients show a 3% to 5% lower oxygen saturationby pulse oximetry than light-skinned patients.”3. “With a dark-skinned patient, you may get more accurate results bymeasuring pulse oximetry on the patient's toes.”4. “More accurate results may result from continuous pulse oximetrymonitoring than spot checking when a patient has darker skin.”8. The nurse is caring for a patient after thoracentesis. Which actions can bedelegated from the nurse to the unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)? Selectall that apply.1. Assess puncture site and dressing for leakage.2. Check vital signs every 15 minutes for 1 hour.3. Auscultate for absent or reduced lung sounds.4. Remind the patient to take deep breaths.5. Take the specimens to the laboratory.6. Teach the patient symptoms of pneumothorax.1349. The nurse is supervising a student nurse who is performing tracheostomycare for a patient. Which action by the student would cause the nurse tointervene?1. Suctioning the tracheostomy tube before performing tracheostomy care2. Removing old dressings and cleaning off excess secretions3. Removing the inner cannula and cleaning using standard precautions4. Replacing the inner cannula and cleaning the stoma site10. The nurse is supervising an RN who floated from the medical-surgical unitto the emergency department. The float nurse is providing care for a patientadmitted with anterior epistaxis (nosebleed). Which directions would thesupervising nurse clearly provide to the RN? Select all that apply.1. Position the patient supine and turned on his side.2. Apply direct lateral pressure to the nose for 5 minutes.3. Maintain standard body substance precautions.4. Apply ice or cool compresses to the nose.5. Instruct the patient not to blow the nose for several hours.6. Teach the patient to avoid vigorous nose blowing.11. A patient with a diagnosis of sleep apnea has a problem with sleepdeprivation related to a disrupted sleep cycle. Which action should the nursedelegate to the unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Discussing weight-loss strategies such as diet and exercise with the patient2. Teaching the patient how to set up the bilevel positive airway pressure(BiPAP) machine before sleeping3. Reminding the patient to sleep on his side instead of his back4. Administering modafinil to promote daytime wakefulness12. The nurse is acting as preceptor for a newly-graduated RN during thesecond week of orientation. The nurse would assign and supervise the newRN to provide nursing care for which patients? Select all that apply.1. A 38-year-old patient with moderate persistent asthma awaiting discharge2. A 63-year-old patient with a tracheostomy needing tracheostomy careevery shift3. A 56-year-old patient with lung cancer who has just undergone left lowerlobectomy4. A 49-year-old patient just admitted with a new diagnosis of esophagealcancer5. A 76-year-old patient newly diagnosed with type 2 diabetes6. A 69-year-old patient with emphysema to be discharged tomorrow13. The nurse is providing care for a patient with recently diagnosed asthma.Which key points would the nurse be sure to include in the teaching plan forthis patient? Select all that apply.1351. Avoid potential environmental asthma triggers such as smoke.2. Use the inhaler 30 minutes before exercising to prevent bronchospasm.3. Wash all bedding in cold water to reduce and destroy dust mites.4. Be sure to get at least 8 hours of rest and sleep every night.5. Avoid foods prepared with monosodium glutamate (MSG).6. Keep a symptom and intervention diary to learn specific triggers for yourasthma.14. The nurse is the team leader RN working with a student nurse. The studentnurse is to teach a patient how to use a metered-dose inhaler (MDI) without aspacer. Put in correct order the steps that the student nurse should teach thepatient.1. Remove the inhaler cap and shake the inhaler.2. Open your mouth and place the mouthpiece 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5.0 cm)away.3. Breathe out completely.4. Hold your breath for at least 10 seconds.5. Press down firmly on the canister and breathe deeply through your mouth.6. Wait at least 1 minute between puffs._____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____15. A patient has chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Whichintervention for airway management should the nurse delegate to theunlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Assisting the patient to sit up on the side of the bed2. Instructing the patient to cough effectively3. Teaching the patient to use incentive spirometry4. Auscultating breath sounds every 4 hours16. A patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) has rapidshallow respirations. Which is an appropriate action to assign to theexperienced LPN/LVN under RN supervision?1. Observing how well the patient performs pursed-lip breathing2. Planning a nursing care regimen that gradually increases activity tolerance3. Assisting the patient with basic activities of daily living (ADLs)4. Consulting with the physical therapy department about reconditioningexercises17. A patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) tells theunlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) that he did not get his annual flu shotthis year and has not had a pneumonia vaccination. Which vital sign changewill be most important for the nurse to instruct the UAP to report?1. Blood pressure of 152/84 mm Hg2. Respiratory rate of 27 breaths/min1363. Heart rate of 92 beats/min4. Oral temperature of 101.2°F (38.4°C)18. The nurse is responsible for the care of a postoperative patient with athoracotomy. Which action should the nurse delegate to the unlicensedassistive personnel (UAP)?1. Instructing the patient to alternate rest and activity periods2. Encouraging, monitoring, and recording nutritional intake3. Monitoring cardiorespiratory response to activity4. Planning activities for periods when the patient has the most energy19. The nurse is supervising a nursing student who is providing care for athoracotomy patient with a chest tube. What finding would the nurse clearlyinstruct the nursing student to report immediately?1. Chest tube drainage of 10 to 15 mL/hr2. Continuous bubbling in the water-seal chamber3. Reports of pain at the chest tube site4. Chest tube dressing dated yesterday20. After change of shift, the nurse is assigned to care for the following patients.Which patient should the nurse assess first?1. A 68-year-old patient on a ventilator for whom a sterile sputum specimenmust be sent to the laboratory2. A 57-year-old patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)and a pulse oximetry reading from the previous shift of 90% saturation3. A 72-year-old patient with pneumonia who needs to be started on IVantibiotics4. A 51-year-old patient with asthma who reports shortness of breath afterusing a bronchodilator inhaler21. The nurse is initiating a nursing care plan for a patient with pneumonia.Which intervention for cough enhancement should the nurse delegate to theunlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Teaching the patient about the importance of adequate fluid intake andhydration2. Assisting the patient to a sitting position with neck flexed, shouldersrelaxed, and knees flexed3. Reminding the patient to use an incentive spirometer every 1 to 2 hourswhile awake4. Encouraging the patient to take a deep breath, hold it for 2 seconds, andthen cough two or three times in succession22. The unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) is assisting with feeding for apatient with severe end-stage chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).Which instruction will the nurse provide the UAP?1371. Encourage the patient to eat foods that are high in calories and protein.2. Feed the patient as quickly as possible to prevent early satiety.3. Offer lots of fluids between bites of food.4. Try to get the patient to eat everything on the tray.23. The charge nurse is making assignments for the next shift. Which patientshould be assigned to the fairly new nurse (6 months of experience) floatedfrom the surgical unit to the medical unit?1. A 58-year-old patient on airborne precautions for tuberculosis (TB)2. A 65-year-old patient who just returned from bronchoscopy and biopsy3. A 72-year-old patient who needs teaching about the use of incentivespirometry4. A 69-year-old patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)who is ventilator dependent24. When a patient with tuberculosis (TB) is being prepared for discharge,which statement by the patient indicates a need for further teaching?1. “Everyone in my family needs to go and see the doctor for TB testing.”2. “I will continue to take my isoniazid until I am feeling completely well.”3. “I will cover my mouth and nose when I sneeze or cough and put my usedtissues in a plastic bag.”4. “I will change my diet to include more foods rich in iron, protein, andvitamin C.”25. The nurse is admitting a patient for whom a diagnosis of pulmonaryembolus must be ruled out. The patient's history and assessment reveal all ofthese findings. Which finding supports the diagnosis of pulmonary embolus?1. The patient was recently in a motor vehicle crash.2. The patient participated in an aerobic exercise program for 6 months.3. The patient gave birth to her youngest child 1 year ago.4. The patient was on bed rest for 6 hours after a diagnostic procedure.26. Which intervention for a patient with a pulmonary embolus would the RNassign to the LPN/LVN on the patient care team?1. Evaluating the patient's reports of chest pain2. Monitoring laboratory values for changes in oxygenation3. Assessing for symptoms of respiratory failure4. Auscultating the lungs for crackles27. A patient with a pulmonary embolus is receiving anticoagulation with IVheparin. What instructions would the nurse give the unlicensed assistivepersonnel (UAP) who will help the patient with activities of daily living(ADLs)? Select all that apply.1. Use a lift sheet when moving and positioning the patient in bed.1382. Use an electric razor when shaving the patient each day.3. Use a soft-bristled toothbrush or tooth sponge for oral care.4. Use a rectal thermometer to obtain a more accurate body temperature.5. Be sure the patient's footwear has a firm sole when the patient ambulates.6. Assess the patient for any signs or symptoms of bleeding.28. A patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) tells the nursethat he is always tired. What advice would the nurse give this patient to copewith his fatigue? Select all that apply.1. Do not rush through your morning activities of daily living.2. Avoid working with the arms raised.3. Eat three large meals every day focusing on calories and protein.4. Organize your work area so that what you use most is easy to reach.5. Get all of your activities accomplished then take a nap.6. Don’t hold your breath while performing any activities.29. A patient with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is receivingoxygen by nonrebreather mask, but arterial blood gas measurementscontinue to show poor oxygenation. Which action does the nurse anticipatethat the health care provider will prescribe?1. Perform endotracheal intubation and initiate mechanical ventilation.2. Immediately begin continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) via thepatient's nose and mouth.3. Administer furosemide (Lasix) 100 mg IV push immediately (STAT).4. Call a code for respiratory arrest.30. The nurse is the preceptor for an RN who is undergoing orientation to theintensive care unit. The RN is providing care for a patient with acuterespiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) who has just been intubated inpreparation for mechanical ventilation. The preceptor observes the RNperforming all of these actions. For which action must the preceptor interveneimmediately?1. Assesses for bilateral breath sounds and symmetrical chest movement2. Uses an end-tidal carbon dioxide detector to confirm endotracheal tube(ET) position3. Marks the tube 1 cm from where it touches the incisor tooth or nares4. Orders chest radiography to verify that tube placement is correct31. The nurse is assigned to provide nursing care for a patient receivingmechanical ventilation. Which action should the nurse delegate to anexperienced unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Assessing the patient's respiratory status every 4 hours2. Taking vital signs and pulse oximetry readings every 4 hours3. Checking the ventilator settings to make sure they are as prescribed1394. Observing whether the patient's tube needs suctioning every 2 hours32. After the respiratory therapist performs suctioning on a patient who isintubated, the unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) measures vital signs forthe patient. Which vital sign value should the UAP be instructed to report tothe RN immediately?1. Heart rate of 98 beats/min2. Respiratory rate of 24 breaths/min3. Blood pressure of 168/90 mm Hg4. Tympanic temperature of 101.4°F (38.6°C)33. The nurse is making a home visit to a 50-year-old patient who was recentlyhospitalized with a right leg deep vein thrombosis and a pulmonaryembolism (venous thromboembolism). The patient's only medication isenoxaparin subcutaneously. Which assessment information will the nurseneed to communicate to the health care provider?1. The patient says that her right leg aches all night.2. The right calf is warm to the touch and is larger than the left calf.3. The patient is unable to remember her husband's first name.4. There are multiple ecchymotic areas on the patient's abdomen.34. The high-pressure alarm on a patient's ventilator goes off. When the nurseenters the room to assess the patient, who has acute respiratory distresssyndrome (ARDS), the oxygen saturation monitor reads 87% and the patientis struggling to sit up. Which action should the nurse take first?1. Reassure the patient that the ventilator will do the work of breathing forhim.2. Manually ventilate the patient while assessing possible reasons for thehigh-pressure alarm.3. Increase the fraction of inspired oxygen (Fio2) on the ventilator to 100% inpreparation for endotracheal suctioning.4. Insert an oral airway to prevent the patient from biting on the endotrachealtube.35. When assessing a 22-year-old patient who required emergency surgery andmultiple transfusions 3 days ago, the nurse finds that the patient looksanxious and has labored respirations at a rate of 38 breaths/min. The oxygensaturation is 90% with the oxygen delivery at 6 L/min via nasal cannula.Which action is most appropriate?1. Increase the flow rate on the oxygen to 10 L/min and reassess the patientafter about 10 minutes.2. Assist the patient in using the incentive spirometer and splint his chest witha pillow while he coughs.3. Administer the ordered morphine sulfate to the patient to decrease hisanxiety and reduce the hyperventilation.1404. Switch the patient to a nonrebreather mask at 95% to 100% fraction ofinspired oxygen (Fio2) and call the health care provider to discuss thepatient's status.36. The nurse has just finished assisting the health care provider with athoracentesis for a patient with recurrent left pleural effusion caused by lungcancer. The thoracentesis removed 1800 mL of fluid. Which patientassessment information is most important to report to the health careprovider (HCP)?1. The patient starts crying and says she can’t go on with treatment muchlonger.2. The patient reports sharp, stabbing chest pain with every deep breath.3. The blood pressure is 100/48 mm Hg, and the heart rate is 102 beats/min.4. The dressing at the thoracentesis site has 1 cm of bloody drainage.37. The nurse is caring for a patient with emphysema and respiratory failurewho is receiving mechanical ventilation through an endotracheal tube. Toprevent ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP), which action is mostimportant to include in the plan of care?1. Administer ordered antibiotics as scheduled.2. Hyperoxygenate the patient before suctioning.3. Maintain the head of bed at a 30- to 45-degree angle.4. Suction the airway when coarse crackles are audible.38. The critical care charge nurse is responsible for the care of four patientsreceiving mechanical ventilation. Which patient is most at risk for failure towean and ventilator dependence?1. A 68-year-old patient with a history of smoking and emphysema2. A 57-year-old patient who experienced a cardiac arrest3. A 49-year-old postoperative patient who had a colectomy4. A 29-year-old patient who is recovering from flail chest39. After extubation of a patient, which finding would the nurse report to thehealth care provider immediately?1. Respiratory rate of 25 breaths/min2. Patient has difficulty speaking3. Oxygen saturation of 93%4. Crowing noise during inspiration40. The RN is supervising a nursing student who will suction a patient on amechanical ventilator. Which actions indicate that the student has a correctunderstanding of this procedure? Select all that apply.1. The student nurse uses a sterile catheter and glove.2. The student nurse applies suction while inserting the catheter.3. The student nurse applies suction during catheter removal.1414. The student nurses uses a twirling motion when withdrawing the catheter.5. The student nurse uses a no. 12 French catheter.6. The student nurse applies suction for at least 20 seconds.142Answer Key1. Ans: 2 Hoarseness often gets worse during treatment with radiation therapy.The nurse should reassure the patient that this usually improves within 6 to 8weeks after therapy is completed. Strategies that may help during radiationtherapy include voice rest with use of alternative means of communication, aswell as saline gargles or sucking on ice chips. Elevating the head of the bedmay help with oxygenation but will not help with hoarseness. Responses 3and 4 are important but do not speak directly to the patient's concern. Focus:Prioritization.2. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 6 When a patient expresses interest in smoking cessation, this isan important teaching moment for the nurse. However, it is essential todetermine the patient's level of nicotine dependence by asking questions suchas questions 1, 3, 4, and 6, which will give clues to this important information.While it is important to know about other family smokers and whether thepatient smokes inside or outside, this information does not necessarily helpwith determining nicotine dependence. Focus: Supervision, Prioritization.3. Ans: 4 When the need for oxygen is greater in the tissues, there is a curve shiftto the right. This means that oxygen is dissociated from hemoglobin faster.Conditions that shift the curve to the right include increased bodytemperature, increased carbon dioxide concentration, and decreased pH oracidosis. This means that hemoglobin unloads oxygen to the tissues becausethey need it to support the higher metabolism, and this is a tissue protectionthat increases oxygen delivery to the tissues that need it the most. Focus:Prioritization.4. Ans: 1, 2, 4 The experienced LPN/LVN is capable of gathering data andmaking observations, including noting breath sounds and performing pulseoximetry. Administering medications, such as those delivered via MDIs, iswithin the scope of practice of the LPN/LVN. Independently completing theadmission assessment, developing the nursing care plan, and evaluating apatient's abilities require additional education and skills within the scope ofpractice of the professional RN. Focus: Assignment, Supervision.5. Ans: 2 For patients with chronic emphysema, the stimulus to breathe is a lowserum oxygen level (the normal stimulus is a high carbon dioxide level). Thispatient's oxygen flow is too high and is causing a high serum oxygen level,which results in a decreased respiratory rate. If the nurse does not intervene,the patient is at risk for respiratory arrest. Crackles, barrel chest, andassumption of a sitting position leaning over the nightstand are common inpatients with chronic emphysema. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip:Immediate or priority concerns are issues that can threaten life or limb. In thiscase, the nurse should remember the normal drive to breathe and recognizethat this patient's drive is different. With a respiratory rate so low, the patientis at risk for a respiratory arrest.1436. Ans: 1 When the oxygen flow rate is higher than 4 L/min, the mucousmembranes can be dried out. The best treatment is to add humidification tothe oxygen delivery system. Applying water-soluble jelly to the nares canalso help decrease mucosal irritation. None of the other options will treat theproblem. Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 2 Teach the UAP that compared with light-skinned adults, adults withdark skin usually show a lower oxygen saturation (3% to 5% lower) asmeasured by pulse oximetry; this results from deeper coloration of the nailbed and does not reflect true oxygen status. None of the other responses arecorrect. Focus: Supervision.8. Ans: 2, 4, 5 Checking vital signs, carrying specimens to the lab, andreminding patients about what has already been taught are actions that arewithin the scope of practice for UAP. Assessing and teaching patientsrequires additional knowledge and training that is within the scope ofpractice for professional nurses. Focus: Delegation.9. Ans: 3 When tracheostomy care is performed, a sterile field is set up, andsterile technique is used. Standard precautions such as washing hands mustalso be maintained but are not enough when performing tracheostomy care.The presence of a tracheostomy tube provides direct access to the lungs fororganisms, so sterile technique is used to prevent infection. All of the othersteps are correct and appropriate. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.10. Ans: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 The correct position for a patient with an anterior nosebleedis upright and leaning forward to prevent blood from entering the stomachand to avoid aspiration. All of the other instructions are appropriateaccording to best practice for emergency care of a patient with an anteriornosebleed. Focus: Assignment, Supervision.11. Ans: 3 The UAP can remind patients about actions that have already beentaught by the nurse and are part of the patient's plan of care. Discussing andteaching require additional education and training. These actions are withinthe scope of practice of the RN. The RN can administer or assign medicationadministration to an LPN/LVN. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.12. Ans: 1, 2, 6 The new RN is at an early point in orientation. The mostappropriate patients to assign to the new RN are those in stable conditionwho require routine care. The patient with the lobectomy will require the careof an experienced nurse, who will perform frequent assessments andmonitoring for postoperative complications. The patient admitted with newlydiagnosed esophageal cancer will also benefit from care by an experiencednurse. This patient may have questions and needs a comprehensiveadmission assessment. The newly diagnosed diabetic patient will need muchteaching as well as careful monitoring. As the new nurse advances throughorientation, the preceptor will want to work with him or her in providingcare for patients with more complex needs. Focus: Assignment, Delegation,Supervision.14413. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 Bedding should be washed in hot water to destroy dustmites. All of the other points are accurate and appropriate to a teaching planfor a patient with a new diagnosis of asthma. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 1, 3, 2, 5, 4, 6 Before each use, the cap is removed, and the inhaler isshaken according to the instructions in the package insert. Next the patientshould breathe out completely. As the patient begins to breathe in deeplythrough the mouth, the canister should be pressed down to release 1 puff(dose) of the medication. The patient should continue to breathe in slowlyover 3 to 5 seconds and then hold the breath for at least 10 seconds to allowthe medication to reach deep into the lungs. The patient should wait at least 1minute between puffs from the inhaler. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 1 Assisting patients with positioning and activities of daily living iswithin the educational preparation and scope of practice of UAPs. Teaching,instructing, and assessing patients all require additional education and skillsand are more appropriate to the scope of practice of licensed nurses. Focus:Delegation, Supervision.16. Ans: 1 Experienced LPNs/LVNs can use observation of patients to gatherdata regarding how well patients perform interventions that have alreadybeen taught. Assisting patients with ADLs is more appropriately delegated toUAPs. Planning and consulting require additional education and skills,appropriate to the RN's scope of practice. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.17. Ans: 4 A patient who did not have the pneumonia vaccination or flu shot isat increased risk for developing pneumonia or influenza. An elevatedtemperature indicates some form of infection, which may be respiratory inorigin. All of the other vital sign values are slightly elevated and should befollowed up on but are not a cause for immediate concern. Focus:Prioritization, Delegation, Supervision.18. Ans: 2 The UAP's training includes how to monitor and record intake andoutput. After the nurse has taught the patient about the importance ofadequate nutritional intake for energy, the UAP can remind and encouragethe patient to take in adequate nutrition. Instructing patients and planningactivities require more education and skill and are appropriate to the RN'sscope of practice. Monitoring the patient's cardiovascular response to activityis a complex process requiring additional education, training, and skill, andfalls within the RN's scope of practice. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.19. Ans: 2 Continuous bubbling indicates an air leak that must be identified.With the health care provider's (HCP’s) order, an RN can apply a paddedclamp to the drainage tubing close to the occlusive dressing. If the bubblingstops, the air leak may be at the chest tube insertion, which will require theRN to notify the HCP. If the air bubbling does not stop when the RN appliesthe padded clamp, the air leak is between the clamp and the drainage system,and the RN must assess the system carefully to locate the leak. Chest tubedrainage of 10 to 15 mL/hr is acceptable. Chest tube dressings are not145changed daily but may be reinforced. The patient's reports of pain need to beassessed and treated. This is important but is not as urgent as investigating achest tube leak. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.20. Ans: 4 The patient with asthma did not achieve relief from shortness ofbreath after using the bronchodilator and is at risk for respiratorycomplications. This patient's needs are urgent. The other patients need to beassessed as soon as possible, but none of their situations is urgent. In patientswith COPD, pulse oximetry oxygen saturations of more than 90% areacceptable. Focus: Prioritization.21. Ans: 3 UAPs can remind the patient to perform actions that are already partof the plan of care. Assisting the patient into the best position to facilitatecoughing requires specialized knowledge and understanding that is beyondthe scope of practice of the basic UAP. However, an experienced UAP couldassist the patient with positioning after the UAP and the patient had beentaught the proper technique. UAPs would still be under the supervision ofthe RN. Teaching patients about adequate fluid intake and techniques thatfacilitate coughing requires additional education and skill and is within thescope of practice of the RN. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.22. Ans: 1 Patients with COPD often have food intolerance, nausea, early satiety(feeling too “full” to eat), poor appetite, and meal-related dyspnea. Theincreased work of breathing raises calorie and protein needs, which can leadto protein-calorie malnutrition. Urging the patient to eat high-calorie, highproteinfoods can be done by the UAP after the nurse has taught the patientabout the importance of this strategy to prevent weight loss. Feeding thepatient too rapidly will tire him or her. If early satiety is a problem, avoidfluids before or during the meal or provide smaller, more frequent meals.Focus: Delegation, Supervision.23. Ans: 3 Many surgical patients are taught about coughing, deep breathing,and the use of incentive spirometry preoperatively. Also, a fairly new nurseshould be assigned more stable and less complicated patients. To care for thepatient with TB in isolation, the nurse must be fitted for a high-efficiencyparticulate air (HEPA) respirator mask. The bronchoscopy patient needsspecialized and careful assessment and monitoring after the procedure, andthe ventilator-dependent patient needs a nurse who is familiar with ventilatorcare. Both of these patients need experienced nurses. Focus: Assignment.24. Ans: 2 Patients taking isoniazid must continue taking the drug for 6 months.The other three statements are accurate and indicate an understanding of TB.Family members should be tested because of their repeated exposure to thepatient. Covering the nose and mouth when sneezing or coughing andplacing tissues in plastic bags help prevent transmission of the causativeorganism. The dietary changes are recommended for patients with TB. Focus:Prioritization.25. Ans: 1 Patients who have recently experienced trauma are at risk for deep146vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolus (PE). None of the otherfindings are risk factors for PE. Prolonged immobilization is also a risk factorfor DVT and PE, but this period of bed rest was very short. Focus:Prioritization.26. Ans: 4 An LPN/LVN who has been trained to auscultate lung sounds cangather data by routine assessment and observation under the supervision ofan RN. Independently evaluating patients, assessing for symptoms ofrespiratory failure, and monitoring and interpreting laboratory values requireadditional education and skill, appropriate to the scope of practice of the RN.Focus: Assignment, Supervision.27. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 5 While a patient is receiving anticoagulation therapy, it isimportant to avoid trauma to the rectal tissue, which could cause bleeding(e.g., avoid rectal thermometers and enemas). Assessment of patients iswithin the scope of practice for professional nurses. All of the otherinstructions are appropriate for the UAP when caring for a patient receivinganticoagulants. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.28. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 6 Patients with COPD often have chronic fatigue. Teach them tonot rush through activities but to pace activities with periods of rest.Encourage patients to avoid working with their arms raised. Activitiesinvolving the arms decrease exercise tolerance because the accessory musclesare used to stabilize the arms and shoulders rather than to assist breathing.Smaller more frequent meals may be less tiring. Teach the patient to avoidbreath-holding while performing any activity because this interferes with gasexchange. Focus: Prioritization.29. Ans: 1 A nonrebreather mask can deliver nearly 100% oxygen. When thepatient's oxygenation status does not improve adequately in response todelivery of oxygen at this high concentration, refractory hypoxemia ispresent. Usually at this stage, the patient is working very hard to breathe andmay go into respiratory arrest unless health care providers intervene byproviding intubation and mechanical ventilation to decrease the patient'swork of breathing. Focus: Prioritization.30. Ans: 3 The ET should be marked at the level where it touches the incisortooth or nares. This mark is used to verify that the tube has not shifted. Theother three actions are appropriate after ET placement. The priority at thistime is to verify that the tube has been correctly placed. Use of an end-tidalcarbon dioxide detector is the gold standard for evaluating and confirmingET position in patients who have adequate tissue perfusion. Focus:Delegation, Supervision, Prioritization.31. Ans: 2 The UAP's educational preparation includes measuring vital signs,and an experienced UAP would have been taught and know how to checkoxygen saturation by pulse oximetry. Assessing and observing the patient, aswell as checking ventilator settings, require the additional education andskills of the RN. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.14732. Ans: 4 Infections are always a threat for the patient receiving mechanicalventilation. The endotracheal tube bypasses the body's normal air-filteringmechanisms and provides a direct access route for bacteria or viruses to thelower parts of the respiratory system. The other vital signs are important andshould be followed up on but are not of as urgent concern. Focus:Prioritization.33. Ans: 3 Confusion in a patient this age is unusual and may be an indication ofintracerebral bleeding associated with enoxaparin use. The right legsymptoms are consistent with a resolving deep vein thrombosis; the patientmay need teaching about keeping the right leg elevated above the heart toreduce swelling and pain. The presence of ecchymoses may point to a need todo more patient teaching about avoiding injury while taking anticoagulantsbut does not indicate that the health care provider needs to be called. Focus:Prioritization.34. Ans: 2 Manual ventilation of the patient will allow the nurse to deliver anFio2 of 100% to the patient while attempting to determine the cause of thehigh-pressure alarm. The patient may need reassurance, suctioning, orinsertion of an oral airway, but the first step should be assessing the reasonfor the high-pressure alarm and resolving the hypoxemia. Focus:Prioritization.35. Ans: 4 The patient's history and symptoms suggest the development of acuterespiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), which will require intubation andmechanical ventilation to maintain oxygenation and gas exchange. The HCPmust be notified so that appropriate interventions can be taken. Applicationof a nonrebreather mask can improve oxygenation up to 95 to 100%. Themaximum oxygen delivery with a nasal cannula is an Fio2 of 44%. This isachieved with the oxygen flow at 6 L/min, so increasing the flow to 10 L/minwill not be helpful. Helping the patient to cough and deep breathe will notimprove the lung stiffness that is causing his respiratory distress. Morphinesulfate will only decrease the respiratory drive and further contribute to hishypoxemia. Focus: Prioritization.36. Ans: 3 Removal of large quantities of fluid from the pleural space can causefluid to shift from the circulation into the pleural space, causing hypotensionand tachycardia. The patient may need to receive IV fluids to correct this. Theother data indicate that the patient needs ongoing monitoring orinterventions but would not be unusual findings for a patient with thisdiagnosis or after this procedure. Focus: Prioritization.37. Ans: 3 Research indicates that nursing actions such as maintaining the headof the bed at 30 to 45 degrees decrease the incidence of VAP. These actionsare part of the standard of care for patients who require mechanicalventilation. The other actions are also appropriate for this patient but will notdecrease the incidence of VAP. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip:Prevention of VAP has been a subject of research; as a result, a ventilator148bundle order set has been developed to apply to patients placed onventilators with the goal of prevention of VAP.38. Ans: 1 Older patients, especially those who have smoked or who havechronic lung problems such as COPD, are at risk for ventilator dependenceand failure to wean. Age-related changes, such as chest wall stiffness,reduced ventilatory muscle strength, and decreased lung elasticity, reducethe likelihood of weaning. Younger patients without respiratory illnesses arelikely to wean from the ventilator without difficulty. Focus: Prioritization.39. Ans: 4 Stridor is a high-pitched, crowing noise during inspiration caused bylaryngospasm or edema around the glottis. It is a symptom that the patientmay need to be reintubated. When stridor or other symptoms of obstructionoccur after extubation, respond by immediately calling the Rapid ResponseTeam before the airway becomes completely obstructed. It is common forpatients to be hoarse and have a sore throat for a few days after extubation. Arespiratory rate of 25 breaths/min should be rechecked but is not animmediate danger, and an oxygen saturation of 93% is low normal. Focus:Prioritization.40. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 5 The standard size catheter for an adult is a no. 12 or 14 French.Infection is possible because each catheter pass can introduce bacteria into thetrachea. In the hospital, use sterile technique for suctioning and for allsuctioning equipment (e.g., suction catheters, gloves, saline or water). Applysuction only during catheter withdrawal and use a twirling motion to preventthe catheter from grabbing tracheal mucosa and leading to damage totracheal tissue. Apply suction for no more than 10 seconds to minimizehypoxemia during suctioning. Focus: Prioritization.149C H A P T E R 7150Cardiovascular Problems151Questions1. The clinic nurse is evaluating a client who had coronary artery stentingthrough the right femoral artery a week previously and is taking metoprolol,clopidogrel, and aspirin. Which information reported by the client is mostimportant to report to the health care provider?1. Stools have been black in color.2. Bruising is present at the right groin.3. Home blood pressure today was 104/52 mm Hg.4. Home radial pulse rate has been 55 to 60 beats/min.2. Which topics will the nurse plan to include in discharge teaching for a clientwho has been admitted with heart failure? Select all that apply.1. How to monitor and record daily weight2. Importance of stopping exercise if heart rate increases3. Symptoms of worsening heart failure4. Purpose of chronic antibiotic therapy5. How to read food labels for sodium content6. Date and time for follow-up appointments3. The nurse is reviewing the laboratory results for a client with an elevatedcholesterol level who is taking atorvastatin. Which result is most important todiscuss with the health care provider?1. Serum potassium is 3.4 mEq/L (3.4 mmol/L).2. Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) is 9 mg/dL (3.2 mmol/L).3. Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) is 30 units/L (0.5 μkat/L).4. Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol is 170 mg/dL (4.4 mmol/L).4. Which finding in a client with aortic stenosis will be most important for thenurse to report to the health care provider?1. Temperature of 102.1°F (38.9°C)2. Loud systolic murmur over sternum3. Blood pressure of 110/88 mm Hg4. Weak radial and pedal pulses to palpation5. A client who has just arrived in the emergency department reports substernaland left arm discomfort that has been going on for about 3 hours. Whichlaboratory test will be most useful in determining whether the nurse shouldanticipate implementing the acute coronary syndrome standard protocol?1. Creatine kinase MB level2. Troponin I level3. Myoglobin level1524. C-reactive protein level6. When the nurse is monitoring a 53-year-old client who is undergoing atreadmill stress test, which finding will require the most immediate action?1. Blood pressure of 152/88 mm Hg2. Heart rate of 134 beats/min3. Oxygen saturation of 91%4. Chest pain level of 3 (on a scale of 0 to 10)7. The health care provider prescribes these actions for a client who wasadmitted with acute substernal chest pain. Which actions are appropriate toassign to an experienced LPN/LVN who is working in the emergencydepartment? Select all that apply.1. Attaching cardiac monitor leads2. Giving heparin 5000 units IV push3. Administering morphine sulfate 4 mg IV4. Obtaining a 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG)5. Asking the client about pertinent medical history6. Having the client chew and swallow aspirin 162 mg8. Based on this information in a client's medical record, which topic is thehighest priority for the nurse to include in the initial teaching plan for a 26-year-old client who has blood pressures ranging from 150/84 to 162/90 mmHg?1. Symptoms of acute stroke and myocardial infarction2. Adverse effects of alcohol on blood pressure3. Methods for decreasing dietary caloric intake4. Low-sodium food choices when eating out9. The nurse makes a home visit to evaluate a hypertensive client who has beentaking enalapril. Which finding is most important to report to the health careprovider?1. Client reports frequent urination.2. Client's blood pressure is 138/86 mm Hg.3. Client complains about a frequent dry cough.4. Client says, “I get dizzy sometimes if I stand up fast.”10. While reviewing a hospitalized client's medical record, the nurse obtains thisinformation about cardiovascular risk factors. Which interventions will beimportant to include in the discharge plan for this client? Select all that153apply.1. Referral to community programs that assist in smoking cessation2. Teaching about the impact of family history on cardiovascular risk3. Education about the need for a change in antihypertensive therapy4. Assistance in reducing emotional stress5. Discussion of the risks associated with having a sedentary lifestyle11. Which client is best for the coronary care charge nurse to assign to a floatRN who has come for the day from the general medical-surgical unit?1. Client requiring discharge teaching about coronary artery stenting beforegoing home today2. Client receiving IV furosemide to treat acute left ventricular failure3. Client who just transferred in from the radiology department after acoronary angioplasty4. Client just admitted with unstable angina who has orders for a heparininfusion and aspirin12. At 9:00 pm, the nurse admits a 63-year-old client with a diagnosis of acutemyocardial infarction. Which finding is most important to communicate tothe health care provider who is considering the use of fibrinolytic therapywith tissue plasminogen activator (alteplase) for the client?1. The client was treated with alteplase about 8 months ago.2. The client takes famotidine for gastroesophageal reflux disease.3. The client has ST-segment elevations on the electrocardiogram (ECG).4. The client reports having continuous chest pain since 8:00 am.13. The nurse is caring for a client who has heart failure and has a newprescription for sacubitril–valsartan. Which client information is mostimportant to discuss with the health care provider before administration ofthe medication?1. The client's oxygen saturation is 92%.2. The client receives lisinopril 10 mg/day.3. The client's blood pressure is 150/90 mm Hg.4. The client's potassium is 3.3 mEq/L (3.3 mmol/L).14. A client whose systolic blood pressure is always higher than 140 mm Hg inthe clinic tells the nurse, “My blood pressure at home is always fine!” Whataction should the nurse take next?1. Instruct the client about the effects of untreated high blood pressure on thecardiovascular and cerebrovascular systems.1542. Educate the client about lifestyle changes such as low-sodium diet, dailyexercise, and restricting alcohol use to no more than 2 beers per day.3. Ask the client to obtain blood pressures twice daily with an automaticblood pressure cuff at home and bring the results to the clinic in a week.4. Provide the client with a handout describing the various types ofantihypertensive medications with the medication effects and adverseeffects.15. The nurse is working with an experienced unlicensed assistive personnel(UAP) and an LPN/LVN on the telemetry unit. A client who had an acutemyocardial infarction 3 days ago has been reporting fatigue and chestdiscomfort when ambulating. Which nursing activity included in the careplan is best assigned to the LPN/LVN?1. Administering nitroglycerin 0.4 mg sublingually if chest discomfort occursduring client activities2. Monitoring pulse, blood pressure, and oxygen saturation before and afterclient ambulation3. Teaching the client energy conservation techniques to decrease myocardialoxygen demand4. Explaining the rationale for alternating rest periods with exercise to theclient and family16. The emergency department nurse is caring for a client who was justadmitted with left anterior chest pain, possible acute myocardial infarction(MI). Which action will the nurse take first?1. Insert an IV catheter.2. Auscultate heart sounds.3. Administer sublingual nitroglycerin.4. Draw blood for troponin I measurement.17. An 80-year-old client on the coronary step-down unit tells the nurse “I donot need to take that docusate. I never get constipated!” Which action by thenurse is most appropriate?1. Document the medication on the client's chart as “refused.”2. Mix the medication with food and administer it to the client.3. Explain that his decreased activity level may cause constipation.4. Reinforce that the docusate has been prescribed for a good reason.18. The nurse has given morphine sulfate 4 mg IV to a client who is having anacute myocardial infarction. When evaluating the client's response 5 minutesafter giving the medication, which finding indicates a need for immediatefurther action?1. Blood pressure decrease from 114/65 to 106/58 mm Hg2. Respiratory rate drop from 18 to 12 breaths/min3. Cardiac monitor indicating sinus rhythm at a rate of 96 beats/min1554. Persisting chest pain at a level of 1 (on a scale of 0 to 10)19. The nurse is preparing to implement teaching about a heart-healthy diet andactivity levels for a client who has had a myocardial infarction and the client'sspouse. The client says, “I don’t see why I need any teaching. I don’t think Ineed to change anything right now.” Which response is most appropriate?1. “Do you think your family may want you to make some lifestyle changes?”2. “Can you tell me why you don’t feel that you need to make any changes?”3. “You are still in the stage of denial, but you will want this information lateron.”4. “Even though you don’t want to change, it's important that you have thisteaching.”20. The nurse is caring for a hospitalized client with heart failure who isreceiving captopril and spironolactone. Which laboratory value will be mostimportant to monitor?1. Sodium level2. Blood glucose level3. Potassium level4. Alkaline phosphatase level21. The health care provider telephones the nurse with new prescriptions for aclient with angina who is already taking aspirin. Which medication is mostimportant to clarify further with the health care provider?1. Clopidogrel 75 mg/day2. Ibuprofen 200 mg every 4 hours as needed3. Metoprolol succinate 50 mg/day4. Nitroglycerin patch 0.4 mg/hr22. At 10:00 am, a hospitalized client receives a new order for transesophagealechocardiography as soon as possible. Which action will the nurse take first?1. Put the client on “nothing by mouth” (NPO) status.2. Teach the client about the procedure.3. Insert an IV catheter in the client's forearm.4. Attach the client to a cardiac monitor.23. A client with stable angina has a prescription for ranolazine 500 mg twice aday. Which client finding is most important for the nurse to discuss with thehealth care provider?1. Heart rate is 52 beats/min.2. Client is also taking carvedilol for angina.3. Client reports having chronic constipation.4. Blood pressure is 106/56 mm Hg.24. The nurse assesses a client who has just returned to the recovery area after156undergoing coronary arteriography. Which information is of most concern?1. Blood pressure is 154/78 mm Hg.2. Pedal pulses are palpable at + 1.3. Left groin has a 3-cm bruised area.4. Apical pulse is 122 beats/min and regular.25. The nurse is working in an outpatient clinic where many vascular diagnostictests are performed. Which task associated with vascular testing is mostappropriate to delegate to experienced unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Measuring ankle and brachial pressures in a client for whom the anklebrachialindex is to be calculated2. Checking blood pressure and pulse every 10 minutes in a client who isundergoing exercise testing3. Obtaining information about allergies from a client who is scheduled forleft leg contrast venography4. Providing brief client teaching for a client who will undergo a rightsubclavian vein Doppler study26. While working on the cardiac step-down unit, the nurse is precepting anewly graduated RN who has been in a 6-week orientation program. Whichclient will be best to assign to the new graduate?1. A 19-year-old client with rheumatic fever who needs discharge teachingbefore going home with a roommate today2. A 33-year-old client admitted a week ago with endocarditis who will bereceiving a scheduled dose of ceftriaxone 2 g IV3. A 50-year-old client with newly diagnosed stable angina who has manyquestions about medications and nursing care4. A 75-year-old client who has just been transferred to the unit afterundergoing coronary artery bypass grafting yesterday27. The nurse is monitoring the cardiac rhythms of clients in the coronary careunit. Which client will need immediate intervention?1. Client admitted with heart failure who has atrial fibrillation with a rate of88 beats/min while at rest2. Client with a newly implanted demand ventricular pacemaker who hasoccasional periods of sinus rhythm at a rate of 90 to 100 beats/min3. Client who has had an acute myocardial infarction and has sinus rhythm ata rate of 76 beats/min with frequent premature ventricular contractions4. Client who recently started taking atenolol and has a first-degree heartblock, with a rate of 58 beats/min28. A client in the emergency department who is being monitored with aportable cardiac monitor/defibrillator develops this rhythm.157Which action will the nurse take first?1. Defibrillate at 200 joules.2. Start cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).3. Administer epinephrine 1 mg IV.4. Intubate and manually ventilate.29. Two weeks ago, a client with heart failure received a new prescription forcarvedilol 12.5 mg orally. Which finding by the nurse who is evaluating theclient in the cardiology clinic is of most concern?1. Reports of increased fatigue and activity intolerance2. Weight increase of 0.5 kg over a 1-week period3. Sinus bradycardia at a rate of 48 beats/min4. Traces of edema noted over both ankles30. The nurse has just received a change-of-shift report about these clients onthe coronary step-down unit. Which one will the nurse assess first?1. A 26-year-old client with heart failure caused by congenital mitral stenosiswho is scheduled for balloon valvuloplasty later today2. A 45-year-old client with constrictive cardiomyopathy who developedacute dyspnea and agitation about 1 hour before the shift change3. A 56-year-old client who underwent coronary angioplasty and stentplacement yesterday and has reported occasional chest pain since theprocedure4. A 77-year-old client who was transferred from the intensive care unit 2days ago after coronary artery bypass grafting and has a temperature of100.6°F (38.1°C)31. The charge nurse in a long-term care facility that employs RNs, LPNs/LVNs,and unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) has developed a plan for theongoing assessment of all residents with a diagnosis of heart failure. Whichactivity included in the plan is most appropriate to assign to an LPN/LVNteam member?1. Weighing all residents with heart failure each morning2. Listening to lung sounds and checking for edema each week1583. Reviewing all heart failure medications with residents every month4. Updating activity plans for residents with heart failure every quarter32. The nurse is participating as a team member in the resuscitation of a clientwho has had a cardiac arrest. The health care provider who is directing theresuscitation asks the nurse to administer epinephrine 1 mg IV. After givingthe medication, which action should the nurse take next?1. Prepare to defibrillate the client.2. Offer to take over chest compressions.3. State: “Epinephrine 1 mg IV has been given.”4. Continue to monitor the client's responsiveness.33. During a home visit to an 88-year-old client who is taking digoxin0.25 mg/day to treat heart failure and atrial fibrillation, the nurse obtains thisassessment information. Which finding is most important to communicate tothe health care provider?1. Apical pulse 68 beats/min and irregular2. Digoxin taken with meals3. Vision that is becoming “fuzzy”4. Lung crackles that clear after coughing34. The nurse is ambulating a cardiac surgery client whose heart rate suddenlyincreases to 146 beats/min. In which order will the nurse take the followingactions?1. Call the client's health care provider.2. Have the client sit down.3. Check the client's blood pressure.4. Administer as needed (PRN) oxygen by nasal cannula._____, _____, _____, _____35. A client who has endocarditis with vegetation on the mitral valve suddenlyreports severe left foot pain. The nurse notes that no pulse is palpable in theleft foot and that it is cold and pale. Which action should the nurse take next?1. Lower the client's left foot below heart level.2. Administer oxygen at 4 L/min to the client.3. Notify the health care provider about the change in status.4. Reassure the client that embolization is common in endocarditis.36. A resident in a long-term care facility who has venous stasis ulcers is treatedwith an Unna boot. Which nursing activity included in the resident's care isbest for the nurse to delegate to the unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Teaching family members the signs of infection2. Monitoring capillary perfusion once every 8 hours3. Evaluating foot sensation and movement each shift1594. Assisting the client in cleaning around the Unna boot37. A client with acute coronary syndrome is receiving a continuous heparininfusion. The client is to receive 700 units/hour.160Based on the heparin concentration on the label, the nurse will set the infusionpump to deliver ________________________ mL/hr.16138. The clinic nurse obtains this information about a client who is takingwarfarin after having a deep vein thrombosis. Which finding is mostindicative of a need for a change in therapy?1. Blood pressure is 106/54 mm Hg.2. International normalized ratio (INR) is 1.2.3. Bruises are noted at sites where blood has been drawn.4. Client reports eating a green salad for lunch every day.39. The nurse in the cardiovascular clinic receives telephone calls from fourclients. Which client should be scheduled to be seen most urgently?1. Client with peripheral arterial disease who complains of leg cramps whenwalking2. Client with atrial fibrillation who reports episodes of lightheadedness andsyncope3. Client with a new permanent pacemaker who has severe itchiness at thewound site4. Client with angina who took nitroglycerin twice in the last week whileexercising40. During the initial postoperative assessment of a client who has just beentransferred to the postanesthesia care unit after repair of an abdominal aorticaneurysm, the nurse obtains these data. Which finding has the mostimmediate implications for the client's care?1. Arterial line indicates a blood pressure of 190/112 mm Hg.2. Cardiac monitor shows frequent premature atrial contractions.3. There is no response to verbal stimulation.4. Urine output is 40 mL of amber urine.41. The nurse is developing a standardized care plan for the postoperative careof clients undergoing cardiac surgery. The unit is staffed with RNs,LPN/LVNs, and unlicensed assistive personnel. Which nursing activity willneed to be performed by RN staff members?1. Removing chest and leg dressings on the second postoperative day andcleaning the incisions with antibacterial swabs2. Reinforcing client and family teaching about the need to deep breathe andcough at least every 2 hours while awake3. Developing an individual plan for discharge teaching based on dischargemedications and needed lifestyle changes4. Administering oral analgesic medications as needed before helping theclient out of bed on the first postoperative day42. The nurse is preparing to administer the following medications to a clientwith multiple health problems who has been hospitalized with deep veinthrombosis. Which medication is most important to double-check withanother licensed nurse?1621. Famotidine 20 mg IV2. Furosemide 40 mg IV3. Digoxin 0.25 mg PO4. Warfarin 2.5 mg PO43. A client seen in the clinic with shortness of breath and fatigue is beingevaluated for a possible diagnosis of heart failure. Which laboratory resultwill be most useful to monitor?1. Serum potassium2. B-type natriuretic peptide3. Blood urea nitrogen4. Hematocrit44. A client who is scheduled for a coronary arteriogram is admitted to thehospital on the day of the procedure. Which client information is mostimportant for the nurse to communicate to the health care provider (HCP)before the procedure?1. Blood glucose level is 144 mg/dL (8 mmol/L).2. Cardiac monitor shows sinus bradycardia, rate 56 beats/min.3. Client reports chest pain that occurred yesterday.4. Client took metformin 500 mg this morning.163Answer Key1. Ans: 1 Dark or tarry stools may indicate gastrointestinal bleeding, which is apossible adverse effect of both aspirin and clopidogrel. The client will need tocontinue on the medications but may need treatment with proton pumpinhibitors or histamine2 blockers to decrease risk for gastrointestinal bleeding.The other findings will also be reported to the health care provider but willnot require a change in the therapeutic plan for the client. Focus:Prioritization.2. Ans: 1, 3, 5, 6 To avoid rehospitalization, topics that should be included whendischarging a client with heart failure include low-sodium diet, purpose andcommon side effects of medications such as angiotensin-converting enzymeinhibitors and beta-blockers, what to do if symptoms of worsening heartfailure occur, and follow-up appointments. The nurse will teach the clientthat a moderate increase in heart rate and respiratory effort is normal withexercise. Antibiotics are not included in the treatment regimen for heartfailure, which is not an infectious process. Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 4 The client's low-density lipoprotein level continues to be elevated andindicates a need for further assessment (e.g., the client may not be taking theatorvastatin), a change in medication, or both. Although statin medicationsmay cause rhabdomyolysis, which could increase BUN and potassium, theclient's BUN and potassium are not elevated. Although ongoing monitoringof liver function is recommended when statins are used, this client's AST isnormal. Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 1 Because endocarditis is a concern with valvular disease, an elevatedtemperature indicates a need for further assessment and diagnostic testing(e.g., an echocardiogram and blood cultures). A systolic murmur, decreasedpulse pressure, and weak pulses would be expected in a client with aorticstenosis and do not indicate an immediate need for further evaluation ortreatment. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 2 Cardiac troponin levels are elevated 3 hours after the onset ofmyocardial infarction (MI) and are very specific to cardiac muscle injury orinfarction. Creatine kinase MB and myoglobin levels also increase with MI,but creatine kinase levels take at least 6 hours to increase and myoglobin isnonspecific. Elevated C-reactive protein levels are a risk factor for coronaryartery disease but are not useful in detecting acute injury or infarction. Focus:Prioritization.6. Ans: 4 Chest pain in a client undergoing a stress test indicates myocardialischemia and is an indication to stop the testing to avoid ongoing ischemia,injury, or infarction. Moderate elevations in blood pressure and heart rateand slight decreases in oxygen saturation are a normal response to exerciseand are expected during stress testing. Focus: Prioritization.1647. Ans: 1, 4, 6 Attaching cardiac monitor leads, obtaining an ECG, andadministering oral medications are within the scope of practice forLPN/LVNs. An experienced LPN/LVN would be familiar with theseactivities. Although anticoagulants and narcotics may be administered byLPNs/LVNs to stable clients, these are high-alert medications that should begiven by the RN to this unstable client. Obtaining a pertinent medical historyrequires RN-level education and scope of practice. Focus: Assignment; TestTaking Tip: Remember that administration of “high alert” medications (e.g.,anticoagulants and narcotics) may require a higher level of knowledge andclinical judgment, especially when you are caring for an unstable client.8. Ans: 4 Current guidelines recommend low sodium intake for lifestylemanagement of hypertension, and the nurse should teach the client about thehigh sodium content in many fast foods and how to make low-sodiumchoices. A 26-year-old with this level of hypertension is not likely to have astroke or myocardial infarction. Weight loss or changes in alcohol intake arenot necessary. The client's weight and BMI are normal. Alcohol intake of lessthan 1 or 2 glasses of wine daily is recommended to prevent hypertension.Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 3 A persistent and irritating cough (caused by accumulation ofbradykinin) is a possible adverse effect of angiotensin-converting enzymeinhibitors such as enalapril and is a common reason for changing to anothermedication category such as the angiotensin II receptor blockers. The otherassessment data indicate a need for more client teaching and ongoingmonitoring but would not require a change in therapy. Focus: Prioritization.10. Ans: 1, 2 The client's major modifiable risk factor is ongoing smoking. Thefamily history is significant, and the client should be aware that this increasescardiovascular risk. The blood pressure is well controlled on the currentmedication, and no change is needed. There is no indication that stress is arisk factor for this client, and the client's activity level meets the AmericanHeart Association recommendation for at least 150 minutes of moderateactivity weekly. Focus: Prioritization.11. Ans: 2 An RN who worked on a medical-surgical unit would be familiarwith left ventricular failure, the administration of IV medications, andongoing monitoring for therapeutic and adverse effects of furosemide. Theother clients need to be cared for by RNs who are more familiar with the careof clients who have acute coronary syndrome and with collaborativetreatments such as coronary angioplasty and coronary artery stenting. Focus:Assignment.12. Ans: 4 Because continuous chest pain lasting for more than 12 hoursindicates that reversible myocardial injury has progressed to irreversiblemyocardial necrosis, fibrinolytic drugs are usually not recommended forclients with chest pain that has lasted for more than 12 hours. The otherinformation is also important to communicate but would not impact thedecision about alteplase use. Focus: Prioritization.16513. Ans: 2 Because combination angiotensin receptor blocker–neprilysinblockers markedly increase the risk for angioedema in clients who are alsotaking angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (e.g., lisinopril), theconcomitant use of both lisinopril and sacubitril–valsartan is contraindicated.In addition, the risk for other adverse effects such as hyperkalemia andhypotension is increased. The other findings should be reported to the healthcare provider but do not indicate a need to withhold the sacubitril–valsartan.Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 3 The American Heart Association recommends home blood pressuremonitoring for clients with hypertension or hypertension risk factors becausehome blood pressure monitoring provides more accurate data about usualblood pressure than periodic monitoring. The other actions may be necessary,but further assessment of the client's usual blood pressure is needed beforedecisions about therapy can be made. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 1 Administration of nitroglycerin and appropriate client monitoring fortherapeutic and adverse effects are included in LPN/LVN education andscope of practice. Monitoring of blood pressure, pulse, and oxygen saturationshould be delegated to the UAP. Client teaching requires RN-level educationand scope of practice. Focus: Delegation, Assignment.16. Ans: 3 The priority for a client with unstable angina or MI is treatment ofpain. It is important to remember to assess vital signs before administeringsublingual nitroglycerin. The other activities also should be accomplishedrapidly but are not as high a priority. Focus: Prioritization.17. Ans: 3 The best option in this situation is to educate the client about thepurpose of the docusate (to counteract the negative effects of immobility andnarcotic use on peristalsis). Charting the medication as “refused” or tellingthe client that he should take the docusate simply because it was prescribedare possible actions but are not as appropriate as client education. It isunethical to administer a medication to a client who is unwilling to take itunless someone else has health care power of attorney and has authorizeduse of the medication. Focus: Prioritization.18. Ans: 4 The goal in pain management for the client with an acute myocardialinfarction is to completely eliminate the pain (because ongoing pain indicatescardiac ischemia). Even pain rated at a level of 1 out of 10 should be treatedwith additional morphine sulfate (although possibly a lower dose). The otherdata indicate a need for ongoing assessment for the possible adverse effects ofhypotension, respiratory depression, and tachycardia but do not requirefurther action at this time. Focus: Prioritization.19. Ans: 2 For behavior to change, the client must be aware of the need to makechanges. This response acknowledges the client's statement and asks forfurther clarification. This will give the nurse more information about theclient's feelings, current diet, and activity levels and may increase thewillingness to learn. The other responses (although possibly accurate)166indicate an intention to teach whether the client is ready or not and are notlikely to lead to changes in lifestyle. Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 3 Hyperkalemia is a common adverse effect of both angiotensinconvertingenzyme inhibitors and potassium-sparing diuretics. The otherlaboratory values may be affected by these medications but are not as likelyor as potentially life threatening. Focus: Prioritization.21. Ans: 2 Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) other than aspirininhibit the beneficial effect of aspirin in coronary artery disease. CurrentAmerican Heart Association guidelines recommend against the use of otherNSAIDs for clients with cardiovascular disease. Clopidogrel, metoprolol, andtopical nitroglycerin are appropriate for the client but should be verifiedbecause the orders were received by telephone. Focus: Prioritization.22. Ans: 1 Because transesophageal echocardiography is performed after thethroat is numbed using a topical anesthetic and with the use of IV sedation, itis important that the client be placed on NPO status for several hours beforethe test. The other actions also will need to be accomplished before theechocardiogram but do not need to be implemented immediately. Focus:Prioritization.23. Ans: 3 Chronic constipation is a common adverse effect of ranolazine.Ranolazine does not impact heart rate or blood pressure and can be takenwith beta-blockers or nitrates. The other information may also be reported tothe HCP but does not require a change in the client plan of care. Focus:Prioritization.24. Ans: 4 The most common complication after coronary arteriography ishemorrhage, and the earliest indication of hemorrhage is an increase in heartrate. The other data may also indicate a need for ongoing assessment, but theincrease in heart rate is of most concern. Focus: Prioritization.25. Ans: 1 Measurement of ankle and brachial blood pressures for calculation iswithin the UAP's scope of practice. Calculating the ABI and any referrals ordiscussion with the client are the responsibility of the supervising RN. Theother clients require more complex assessments or client teaching, whichshould be done by an experienced RN. Focus: Delegation.26. Ans: 2 The new RN's education and hospital orientation would haveincluded safe administration of IV medications. The preceptor will beresponsible for the supervision of the new graduate in assessments and clientcare. The other clients require more complex assessment or client teaching byan RN with experience in caring for clients with these diagnoses. Focus:Assignment.27. Ans: 3 Premature ventricular contractions occurring in the setting of acutemyocardial injury or infarction can lead to ventricular tachycardia and/orventricular fibrillation (cardiac arrest), so rapid treatment is necessary. Theother clients also have dysrhythmias that will require further assessment, butthese are not as immediately life threatening as the premature ventricular167contractions in the setting of myocardial infarction. Focus: Prioritization.28. Ans: 1 Research indicates that rapid defibrillation improves the success ofresuscitation in cardiac arrest. If defibrillation is unsuccessful in convertingthe client's rhythm into a perfusing rhythm, CPR should be initiated.Administration of medications and intubation are later interventions.Determining which of these interventions will be used first depends on otherfactors, such as whether IV access is available. Focus: Prioritization.29. Ans: 3 Research indicates that mortality is decreased when clients with heartfailure use beta-blocking medications such as carvedilol. When beta-blockertherapy is started for clients with heart failure, heart failure symptoms mayinitially become worse for a few weeks, so increased fatigue, activityintolerance, weight gain, and edema are not indicative of a need todiscontinue the medication at this time. However, a heart rate of 48 beats/minindicates a need to decrease the carvedilol dose. Focus: Prioritization.30. Ans: 2 The client's symptoms indicate acute hypoxia, so immediate furtherassessments (e.g., assessment of oxygen saturation, neurologic status, andbreath sounds) are indicated. The other clients also should be assessed soonbecause they are likely to require nursing actions such as medicationadministration and teaching, but they are not as acutely ill as the dyspneicclient. Focus: Prioritization.31. Ans: 2 LPN/LVN education and scope of practice include data collectionsuch as listening to lung sounds and checking for peripheral edema whencaring for stable clients. Weighing the residents should be delegated to aUAP. Reviewing medications with residents and planning appropriateactivity levels are nursing actions that require RN-level education and scopeof practice. Focus: Delegation, Assignment.32. Ans: 3 The American Heart Association recommends “closed loop”communication between team members who are involved in resuscitation ofa client. The other actions may also be needed, but the initial action afteradministering a medication is to assure that the team leader knows that theprescribed medication has been administered. Focus: Prioritization.33. Ans: 3 The client's visual disturbances may be a sign of digoxin toxicity. Thenurse should notify the health care provider and obtain an order to measurethe digoxin level. An irregular pulse is expected with atrial fibrillation; thereare no contraindications to taking digoxin with food; and crackles that clearwith coughing are indicative of atelectasis, not worsening of heart failure.Focus: Prioritization.34. Ans: 2, 4, 3, 1 Because the increased heart rate may be associated with a dropin blood pressure and with lightheadedness, the nurse's first action should beto decrease risk for a fall by having the client sit down. Cardiac ischemia maybe causing the client's tachycardia, and administration of supplementaloxygen should be the next action. Assessment of blood pressure should bedone next. Finally, the health care provider should be notified about the168client's response to activity because changes in therapy may be indicated.Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Consider that safety concerns (e.g., fallprevention) are usually the highest priority when deciding the order in whichto take listed actions.35. Ans: 3 The client's history and symptoms indicate that acute arterialocclusion has occurred. Because it is important to return blood flow to thefoot rapidly, the health care provider should be notified immediately so thatinterventions such as balloon angioplasty or surgery can be initiated.Changing the position of the foot and improving blood oxygen saturationwill not improve oxygen delivery to the foot. Telling the client thatembolization is a common complication of endocarditis will not reassure aclient who is experiencing acute pain. Focus: Prioritization.36. Ans: 4 Assisting with hygiene is included in the role and education of UAP.Assessments and teaching are appropriate activities for licensed nursing staffmembers. Focus: Delegation.37. Ans: 17.5 mL/hr Each mL of the solution contains heparin 40 units; 700units/hour equals 17.5 mL/hr. Focus: Prioritization.38. Ans: 2 An INR of 1.2 is not within the expected therapeutic range of 2 to 3and indicates a need for an increase in warfarin dose. The blood pressure is inthe low-normal range. Although the client will be encouraged to avoid injury,increased bruising is common when clients are taking anticoagulants and nota reason to discontinue the medication. Although foods that are high invitamin K will have an impact on INR, this is not a concern when these foodsare eaten consistently because the warfarin dose will be adjusted accordingly.Focus: Prioritization.39. Ans: 2 Lightheadedness and syncope may indicate that the client's heart rateis either too fast or too slow, affecting brain perfusion and causing risk forcomplications such as falls. The other clients will also need to be seen, but thedata indicate that the symptoms of their diseases are relatively wellcontrolled. Focus: Prioritization.40. Ans: 1 Elevated blood pressure in the immediate postoperative period putsstress on the graft suture line and could lead to graft rupture andhemorrhage, so it is important to lower blood pressure quickly. The otherdata also indicate the need for ongoing assessments and possibleinterventions but do not pose an immediate threat to the client'shemodynamic stability. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Whendeciding which client findings are most important, think about whichfindings may lead quickly to a poor client outcome and which data arenormal for a given situation (such as nonresponsiveness in a client who hasjust arrived in the recovery area after surgery).41. Ans: 3 Development of plans for client care or teaching requires RN-leveleducation and is the responsibility of the RN. Wound care, medicationadministration, assisting with ambulation, and reinforcing previously taught169information are activities that can be assigned or delegated to other nursingpersonnel under the supervision of the RN. Focus: Assignment, Delegation.42. Ans: 4 Anticoagulant medications are high-alert medications and requirespecial safeguards, such as double-checking of medications by two nursesbefore administration. Although the other medications require the usualmedication safety procedures, double-checking is not needed. Focus:Prioritization.43. Ans: 2 Research indicates that B-type natriuretic peptide levels increase inclients with poor left ventricular function and symptomatic heart failure andcan be used to differentiate heart failure from other causes of dyspnea andfatigue such as pneumonia. The other values should also be monitored but donot indicate whether the client has heart failure. Focus: Prioritization.44. Ans: 4 Because use of metformin may lead to acute lactic acidosis whenclients undergo procedures that use iodine-based contrast dye, metforminshould be held for 24 hours before and 48 hours after coronary arteriogram.The arteriogram will need to be rescheduled. The other information will alsobe reported to the HCP but would not be unusual in clients with coronaryartery disease. Focus: Prioritization.170C H A P T E R 8171Hematologic Problems172Questions1. A patient who has sickle cell disease is admitted with vaso-occlusive crisisand reports severe abdominal and flank pain. Which of the analgesicmedications on the pain treatment protocol will be best for the nurse toadminister initially?1. Ibuprofen 800 mg PO2. Morphine sulfate 4 mg IV3. Hydromorphone liquid 5 mg PO4. Fentanyl 25 mcg/hr transdermal patch2. A patient with sickle cell disease is admitted with splenic sequestration. Theblood pressure is 86/40 mm Hg, and heart rate is 124 beats/min. Which ofthese actions will the nurse take first?1. Complete a head-to-toe assessment.2. Draw blood for type and cross-match.3. Infuse normal saline at 250 mL/hr.4. Ask the patient about vaccination history.3. When administering a blood transfusion to a patient, which action can thenurse delegate to the unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Take the patient's vital signs before the transfusion is started.2. Assure that the blood is infused within no more than 4 hours.3. Ask the patient at frequent intervals about presence of chills or dyspnea.4. Assist with double-checking the patient's identification and blood bagnumber.4. Which of these patients who have just arrived at the emergency departmentshould the nurse assess first?1. Patient who reports several dark, tarry stools and a history of peptic ulcerdisease2. Patient with hemophilia A who is experiencing thigh swelling after a fall3. Patient who has pernicious anemia and reports paresthesia of the handsand feet4. Patient with thalassemia major who needs a scheduled blood transfusion5. A patient with chemotherapy-related neutropenia is receiving filgrastiminjections. Which finding by the nurse is most important to report to thehealth care provider?1. The patient says, “My bones are aching.”2. The patient's platelet count is 110,000 mm3 (110 × 109/L).3. The patient's white blood cell count is 39,000 mm3 (39.0 × 109/L).4. The patient reports that the medication stings when it is injected.1736. The nurse is reviewing the complete blood count for a patient who has beenadmitted for knee arthroscopy. Which value is most important to report tothe health care provider before surgery?1. Hematocrit of 33% (0.33)2. Hemoglobin level of 10.9 g/dL (109 g/L)3. Platelet count of 426,000/mm3 (426 × 109/L)4. White blood cell count of 16,000/mm3 (16 × 109/L)7. The nurse is providing orientation for a new RN who is preparing toadminister packed red blood cells (PRBCs) to a patient who had blood lossduring surgery. Which action by the new RN requires that the nurseintervene immediately?1. Waiting 20 minutes after obtaining the PRBCs before starting the infusion2. Starting an IV line for the transfusion using a 22-gauge catheter3. Priming the transfusion set using 5% dextrose in lactated Ringer's solution4. Telling the patient that the PRBCs may cause a serious transfusion reaction8. A 32-year-old patient with sickle cell anemia is admitted to the hospitalduring a sickle cell crisis. Blood pressure is 104/62 mm Hg, oxygen saturationis 92%, and the patient reports pain at a level 8 (on a scale of 0 to 10). Whichaction prescribed by the health care provider will the nurse implement first?1. Administer morphine sulfate 4 to 8 mg IV.2. Give oxygen at 4 L/min per nasal cannula.3. Start an infusion of normal saline at 200 mL/hr.4. Apply warm packs to painful joints.9. These activities are included in the care plan for a 78-year-old patientadmitted to the hospital with anemia caused by possible gastrointestinalbleeding. Which activity can the nurse delegate to an experienced unlicensedassistive personnel (UAP)?1. Obtaining stool specimens for fecal occult blood test (FOBT)2. Having the patient sign a colonoscopy consent form3. Giving the prescribed polyethylene glycol electrolyte solution4. Checking for allergies to contrast dye or shellfish10. The charge nurse is making the daily assignments on the medical-surgicalunit. Which patient is best assigned to a float RN who has come from thepostanesthesia care unit (PACU)?1. A 30-year-old patient with thalassemia major who has an order forsubcutaneous infusion of deferoxamine2. A 43-year-old patient with multiple myeloma who requires dischargeteaching3. A 52-year-old patient with chronic gastrointestinal bleeding who hasreturned to the unit after a colonoscopy1744. A 65-year-old patient with pernicious anemia who has just been admittedto the unit11. The nurse is making a room assignment for a newly arrived patient whoselaboratory test results indicate pancytopenia. Which patient will be the bestroommate for the new patient?1. Patient with digoxin toxicity2. Patient with viral pneumonia3. Patient with shingles4. Patient with cellulitis12. A 67-year-old patient who is receiving chemotherapy for lung cancer isadmitted to the hospital with thrombocytopenia. Which statement made bythe patient when the nurse is obtaining the admission history is of mostconcern?1. “I’ve noticed that I bruise more easily since the chemotherapy started.”2. “My bowel movements are soft and dark brown.”3. “I take ibuprofen every day because of my history of osteoarthritis.”4. “My appetite has decreased since the chemotherapy started.”13. After a car accident, a patient with a medical alert bracelet indicatinghemophilia A is admitted to the emergency department. Which actionprescribed by the health care provider will the nurse implement first?1. Transport to the radiology department for cervical spine radiography.2. Transfuse factor VII concentrate.3. Type and cross-match for 4 units of packed red blood cells (PRBCs).4. Infuse normal saline at 250 mL/hr.14. The home health nurse is obtaining a history for a patient who has deep veinthrombosis and is taking warfarin 2 mg/day. Which statement by the patientis the best indicator that additional teaching about warfarin may be needed?1. “I have started to eat more healthy foods like green salads and fruit.”2. “The doctor said that it is important to avoid becoming constipated.”3. “Warfarin makes me feel a little nauseated unless I take it with food.”4. “I will need to have some blood testing done once or twice a week.”15. A patient is admitted to the intensive care unit with disseminatedintravascular coagulation (DIC) associated with a gram-negative infection.Which assessment information has the most immediate implications for thepatient's care?1. There is no palpable radial or pedal pulse.2. The patient reports chest pain.3. The patient's oxygen saturation is 87%.4. There is mottling of the hands and feet.17516. A patient with iron deficiency anemia who is taking oral iron supplements isevaluated by the nurse in the outpatient clinic. Which finding by the nurse isof most concern?1. The patient reports that stools are black.2. The patient complains of occasional constipation.3. The patient takes a multivitamin tablet every day.4. The patient takes an antacid with the iron to avoid nausea.17. When the nurse is assessing a patient with chronic kidney disease who isreceiving epoetin alfa (erythropoietin) injections, which finding mostindicates a need to talk with the health care provider (HCP) before giving themedication?1. Hemoglobin level is 8.9 g/dL (89 g/L).2. Blood pressure is 198/92 mm Hg.3. The patient does not like subcutaneous injections.4. The patient has a history of myocardial infarction.18. A 22-year-old patient with stage I Hodgkin disease is admitted to theoncology unit for radiation therapy. During the initial assessment, the patienttells the nurse, “Sometimes I’m afraid of dying.” Which response is mostappropriate at this time?1. “Many individuals with this diagnosis have some fears.”2. “Perhaps you should ask the doctor about medication.”3. “Tell me a little bit more about your fear of dying.”4. “Most people with stage I Hodgkin disease survive.”19. After the nurse receives a change-of-shift report, which patient should beseen first?1. A 26-year-old patient with thalassemia who has a hemoglobin level of8 g/dL (80 g/L) and orders for a blood transfusion2. A 44-year-old patient admitted 3 days previously for sickle cell crisis who isscheduled for a computed tomographic (CT) scan3. A 50-year-old patient with stage IV non-Hodgkin lymphoma who is cryingand saying, “I’m not ready to die”4. A 69-year-old patient with chemotherapy-induced neutropenia who has anoral temperature of 100.1°F (37.8°C)20. A patient in a long-term care facility who has anemia reports chronic fatigueand dizziness with minimal activity. Which nursing activity will the nursedelegate to the unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Evaluating the patient's response to normal activities of daily living2. Obtaining the patient's blood pressure and pulse with position changes3. Determining which self-care activities the patient can do independently4. Assisting the patient in choosing a diet that will improve strength17621. A transfusion of packed red blood cells (PRBCs) has been infusing for 5minutes when the patient becomes flushed and tachypneic and says, “I’mhaving chills. Please get me a blanket.” Which action should the nurse takefirst?1. Obtain a warm blanket for the patient.2. Check the patient's oral temperature.3. Stop the transfusion.4. Administer oxygen.22. A group of patients is assigned to an RN-LPN/LVN team. The LPN/LVNshould be assigned to provide patient care and administer medications towhich patient?1. A 36-year-old patient with chronic kidney failure who will need asubcutaneous injection of epoetin alfa2. A 39-year-old patient with hemophilia B who has been admitted to receivea blood transfusion3. A 50-year-old patient with newly diagnosed polycythemia vera who willrequire phlebotomy4. A 55-year-old patient with a history of stem cell transplantation who has abone marrow aspiration scheduled23. The nurse obtains the following data about a patient admitted with multiplemyeloma. Which information requires the most rapid action by the nurse?1. The patient reports chronic bone pain.2. The blood uric acid level is very elevated.3. The 24-hour urine test shows Bence Jones proteins.4. The patient reports new-onset leg numbness.24. The nurse in the outpatient clinic is assessing a 22-year-old patient whoneeds a physical exam before starting a new job. The patient reports a historyof a splenectomy several years previously after an accident but has otherwisebeen healthy. Which information obtained during the assessment will be ofmost immediate concern to the nurse?1. The patient engages in unprotected sex.2. The oral temperature is 100°F (37.8°C).3. The blood pressure is 148/76 mm Hg.4. The patient admits to daily marijuana use.25. A patient with graft-versus-host disease after bone marrow transplantationis being cared for on the medical unit. Which nursing activity is best assignedto a travel RN?1. Administering oral cyclosporine2. Assessing the patient for signs of infection3. Infusing 5% dextrose in 0.45% saline at 125 mL/hr1774. Educating the patient about ways to prevent infection26. The nurse is caring for a patient who takes warfarin daily for a diagnosis ofatrial fibrillation. Which information about the patient is most important toreport to the health care provider (HCP)?1. The international normalized ratio (INR) is 5.2.2. Bruising is noted at sites where blood has been drawn.3. The patient reports eating a green salad for lunch every day.4. The patient has questions about whether a different anticoagulant can beused.27. A patient with an absolute neutrophil count of 300/μL (0.3 × 109/L) isadmitted to the oncology unit. Which staff member should the charge nurseassign to provide care for this patient, under the supervision of anexperienced oncology RN?1. LPN/LVN who has floated from the same-day surgery unit2. RN from a staffing agency who is being oriented to the oncology unit3. LPN/LVN with 2 years of experience on the oncology unit4. RN who recently transferred to the oncology unit from the emergencydepartment28. The nurse is transferring a patient with newly-diagnosed chronic myeloidleukemia to a long-term care facility. Which information is most important tocommunicate to the nurse at the long-term care facility before transferring thepatient?1. Philadelphia chromosome is present in the patient's blood smear.2. Glucose level is elevated as a result of prednisone therapy.3. There has been a 20-lb (9.1-kg) weight loss over the last year.4. The patient's chemotherapy has resulted in neutropenia.29. A patient with acute myelogenous leukemia is receiving induction-phasechemotherapy. Which assessment finding requires the most rapid action?1. Serum potassium level 7.8 mEq/L (7.8 mmol/L)2. Urine output less than intake by 400 mL3. Inflammation and redness of the oral mucosa4. Ecchymoses present on the anterior trunk30. A patient who has been receiving cyclosporine following an organtransplantation is experiencing these symptoms. Which one is of mostconcern?1. Bleeding of the gums while brushing the teeth2. Nontender lump in the right groin3. Occasional nausea after taking the medication4. Numbness and tingling of the feet17831. A patient with Hodgkin lymphoma who is receiving radiation therapy to thegroin area has skin redness and tenderness in the area being irradiated.Which nursing activity should the nurse delegate to the unlicensed assistivepersonnel (UAP) caring for the patient?1. Checking the skin for signs of redness or peeling2. Assisting the patient in choosing appropriate clothing3. Explaining good skin care to the patient and family4. Cleaning the skin over the area daily with a mild soap32. After the nurse receives the change-of-shift report, which patient should beassessed first?1. A 20-year-old patient with possible acute myelogenous leukemia who hasjust arrived on the medical unit2. A 38-year-old patient with aplastic anemia who needs teaching aboutdecreasing infection risk before discharge3. A 40-year-old patient with lymphedema who requests help in putting oncompression stockings before getting out of bed4. A 60-year-old patient with non-Hodgkin lymphoma who is refusing theprescribed chemotherapy regimen33. A patient with severe iron deficiency anemia is to receive iron dextrancomplex 25 mg IV. The medication is diluted in 250 mL of normal saline andis to be infused over 6 hours. The nurse will infuse ______________________mL/hr. (Round to 2 decimal points.)179Answer Key1. Ans: 2 Guidelines for the management of vaso-occlusive crisis suggest therapid use of parenteral opioids for patients who have moderate to severepain. The other medications may also be appropriate for the patient as thecrisis resolves but are not the best choice for rapid treatment of severe pain.Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 3 Because the patient is severely hypotensive, correction of hypovolemiacaused by the splenic sequestration is the most urgent action. The otheractions are appropriate because a complete assessment will be needed to plancare, a transfusion is likely to be needed, and vaccination history is pertinentfor patients with sickle cell disease. However, infusion of saline is the priorityneed. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Although thorough assessmentof a newly admitted patient is always needed, when the primary assessment(focused on airway, breathing, circulation, and disability) indicates a need forrapid treatment, the treatment should be initiated before proceeding with therest of the assessment.3. Ans: 1 UAP education and role includes obtaining vital signs, which will bereported to the RN prior to the initiation of the transfusion. Monitoring fortransfusion reactions, adjusting transfusion rate, and assuring that the bloodtype and number are correct require critical thinking and should be done bythe RN. Focus: Delegation.4. Ans: 2 Thigh swelling after an injury in a patient with hemophilia likelyindicates acute bleeding, which can compromise blood flow and nervefunction in the leg and should be treated immediately with theadministration of factor replacement. The other patients also needassessment, treatment, or both, but the data do not indicate any immediatethreat to life or function. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 3 Leukocytosis is an adverse effect of filgrastim and indicates a need tostop the medication or decrease dosage. Bone pain is a common adverseeffect as the bone marrow starts to produce more neutrophils; the patientshould receive analgesics, but the medication will be continued. Stingingwith injection may occur; the nurse should administer the medication moreslowly. The patient's platelet count is low and should be reported, but thelevel of 110,000 mm3 (110 × 109/L) does not increase risk for spontaneousbleeding. Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 4 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines for theprevention of surgical site infections indicate that surgery should bepostponed when there is evidence of a preexisting infection such as anelevation in white blood cell count. The other values are slightly abnormalbut would not be likely to cause postoperative problems for kneearthroscopy. Focus: Prioritization.1807. Ans: 3 Normal saline, an isotonic solution, should be used when priming theIV line to avoid causing hemolysis of red blood cells (RBCs). Ideally, bloodproducts should be infused as soon as possible after they are obtained;however, a 20-minute delay would not be unsafe. Large-bore IV catheters arepreferable for blood administration; if a smaller catheter must be used,normal saline may be used to dilute the RBCs. Although the new RN shouldavoid increasing patient anxiety by indicating that a serious transfusionreaction may occur, this action is not as high a concern as using aninappropriate fluid for priming the IV tubing. Focus: Prioritization.8. Ans: 2 National guidelines for sickle cell crisis indicate that oxygen should beadministered if the oxygen saturation is less than 95%. Hypoxia anddeoxygenation of the blood cells are the most common cause of sickling, soadministration of oxygen is the priority intervention here. Pain control(including administration of morphine and application of warm packs tojoints) and hydration are also important interventions for this patient andshould be accomplished rapidly. Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 1 An experienced UAP will have been taught how to obtain a stoolspecimen for the fecal occult blood test because this is a common screeningtest for hospitalized patients. Having the patient sign an informed consentform should be done by the health care provider who will be performing thecolonoscopy. Administering medications and checking for allergies arewithin the scope of practice of licensed nursing staff. Focus: Delegation.10. Ans: 3 A nurse who works in the postanesthesia care unit will be familiarwith the monitoring needed for a patient who has just returned from aprocedure such as a colonoscopy, which requires moderate sedation ormonitored anesthesia care (conscious sedation). Care of the other patientsrequires staff with more experience with various types of hematologicdisorders and would be better to assign to nursing personnel who regularlywork on the medical-surgical unit. Focus: Assignment.11. Ans: 1 Patients with pancytopenia are at higher risk for infection. Thepatient with digoxin toxicity presents the least risk of infecting the newpatient. Viral pneumonia, shingles, and cellulitis are infectious processes.Focus: Prioritization.12. Ans: 3 Because nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) willdecrease platelet aggregation, patients with thrombocytopenia should not useibuprofen routinely. Patient teaching about this should be included in thecare plan. Bruising is consistent with the patient's admission problem ofthrombocytopenia. Soft, dark brown stools indicate that there is no frank oroccult blood in the bowel movements. Although the patient's decreasedappetite requires further assessment by the nurse, this is a commoncomplication of chemotherapy. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 2 When a hemophiliac patient is at high risk for bleeding, the priorityintervention is to maximize the availability of clotting factors. The other181prescribed actions also should be implemented rapidly but do not have ashigh a priority as administering clotting factors. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 1 Patients taking warfarin are advised to avoid making sudden dietarychanges because changing the oral intake of foods high in vitamin K (e.g.,green leafy vegetables and some fruits) will have an impact on theeffectiveness of the medication. The other statements suggest that furtherteaching may be indicated, but more assessment for teaching needs isrequired first. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 3 Because the decrease in oxygen saturation will have the greatestimmediate effect on all body systems, improvement in oxygenation should bethe priority goal of care. The other data also indicate the need for rapidintervention, but improvement of oxygenation is the most urgent need.Focus: Prioritization.16. Ans: 4 Concurrent use of antacids with iron supplements will decreaseabsorption of the iron and decrease the efficacy in resolving the patient'sanemia. Black stools are expected when taking oral iron. The patient'soccasional constipation may indicate a need for information about preventionof constipation while taking iron. Use of a multivitamin tablet is safe whentaking iron supplements (although the patient may need to avoid takingcombined vitamin and mineral supplements). Focus: Prioritization.17. Ans: 2 Epoetin alfa can cause hypertension, and blood pressure should becontrolled before administering the medication. Because patients withchronic kidney disease have chronic anemia, a hemoglobin level of 8.9 g/dL(89 g/L) is not unusual. Although the nurse could ask the HCP about IVadministration of the medication, subcutaneous administration requires alower dose of the medication and is preferred. Epoetin alfa can cause anginaor myocardial infarction, but the risk is highest when hemoglobin levels aregreater than 11 g/dL (110 g/L). Focus: Prioritization.18. Ans: 3 More assessment about what the patient means is needed before anyinterventions can be planned or implemented. All of the other statementsindicate an assumption that the patient is afraid of dying of Hodgkin disease,which may not be the case. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Whendetermining how to respond to a patient concern or comment, alwaysconsider whether further assessment or clarification is needed beforeappropriate actions can be planned and implemented.19. Ans: 4 Any temperature elevation in a neutropenic patient may indicate thepresence of a life-threatening infection, so actions such as drawing blood forculture and administering antibiotics should be initiated quickly. The otherpatients need to be assessed as soon as possible but are not critically ill.Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 2 UAP education covers routine nursing skills such as assessment ofvital signs. Evaluation, baseline assessment of patient abilities, and nutritionplanning are activities appropriate to RN practice. Focus: Delegation.18221. Ans: 3 The patient's symptoms indicate that a transfusion reaction may beoccurring, so the first action should be to stop the transfusion. Chills are anindication of a febrile reaction, so warming the patient may not beappropriate. Checking the patient's temperature and administering oxygenare also appropriate actions if a transfusion reaction is suspected; however,stopping the transfusion is the priority. Focus: Prioritization.22. Ans: 1 LPNs/LVNs should be assigned to care for stable patients.Subcutaneous administration of epoetin is within the LPN/LVN scope ofpractice. Blood transfusions should be administered by RNs becauseevaluation for and management of transfusion reactions require RN-leveleducation and scope of practice. The other patients will require teachingabout phlebotomy and bone marrow aspiration that should be implementedby the RN. Focus: Assignment; Test Taking Tip: When assigning patients ornursing actions to an LPN/LVN, remember that LPN/LVN education andscope of practice is focused on the care of more stable patients.23. Ans: 4 The leg numbness may indicate spinal cord compression, whichshould be evaluated and treated immediately by the health care provider toprevent further loss of function. Chronic bone pain, hyperuricemia, and thepresence of Bence Jones proteins in the urine all are typical of multiplemyeloma and do require assessment or treatment; however, the loss of motoror sensory function is an emergency. Focus: Prioritization.24. Ans: 2 Because the spleen has an important role in the phagocytosis ofmicroorganisms, the patient is at higher risk for severe infection after asplenectomy. Antibiotic administration is usually indicated for anysymptoms of infection. The other information also indicates the need formore assessment and intervention, but prevention and treatment of infectionare the highest priorities for this patient. Focus: Prioritization.25. Ans: 3 The infusion of IV fluids is a common intervention that can beimplemented by RNs who do not have experience in caring for patients whoare severely immunosuppressed. Administering cyclosporine, assessing forsubtle indications of infection, and patient teaching are more complex tasksthat should be done by RN staff members who have experience caring forimmunosuppressed patients. Focus: Assignment.26. Ans: 1 An INR of 2 to 3 is the goal for patients who are taking warfarin foratrial fibrillation; the INR of 5.2 will require that the medication dose beadjusted. Because bleeding times are prolonged when patients receiveanticoagulants, bruising is a common adverse effect. Green leafy vegetablescontain vitamin K and have an impact on the effectiveness of warfarin, but ifpatients eat these vegetables consistently, then warfarin dosing will also beconsistent. The HCP may need to discuss use of the newer oral anticoagulants(which do not require blood testing) with the patient, but the highest concernis the very prolonged INR. Focus: Prioritization.27. Ans: 3 Because many aspects of nursing care need to be modified to prevent183infection when a patient has a low absolute neutrophil count, care should beprovided by the staff member with the most experience with neutropenicpatients. The other staff members have the education required to care for thispatient but are not as clinically experienced. When LPN/LVN staff membersare given acute care patient assignments, they must work under thesupervision of an RN. The LPN/LVN in this case would report to the RNassigned to the patient. Focus: Assignment.28. Ans: 4 A patient with neutropenia is at increased risk for infection, and thenurse who will be receiving the patient needs to know about the neutropeniato make decisions about the patient's room assignment and to plan care. Theother information also will impact planning for patient care, but the chargenurse needs the information about neutropenia before the patient istransferred. Focus: Prioritization.29. Ans: 1 Fatal hyperkalemia may be caused by tumor lysis syndrome, apotentially serious consequence of chemotherapy in acute leukemia. Theother symptoms also indicate a need for further assessment or interventionsbut are not as critical as the elevated potassium level, which requiresimmediate treatment. Focus: Prioritization.30. Ans: 2 A nontender lump in this area (or near any lymph node) may indicatethat the patient has developed lymphoma, a possible adverse effect ofimmunosuppressive therapy. The patient should receive further evaluationimmediately. The other symptoms may also indicate side effects ofcyclosporine (gingival hyperplasia, nausea, paresthesia) but do not indicatethe need for immediate action. Focus: Prioritization.31. Ans: 4 Skin care is included in UAP education and job description.Assessment and patient teaching are more complex tasks that should bedelegated to RNs. Because the patient's clothes need to be carefully chosen toprevent irritation or damage to the skin, the RN should assist the patient withthis. Focus: Delegation.32. Ans: 1 The newly admitted patient should be assessed first because thebaseline assessment and plan of care need to be completed. The other patientsalso need assessments or interventions but do not need immediate nursingcare. Focus: Prioritization.33. Ans: 41.67 mL/hr To infuse 250 mL of solution during 6 hours, the nurse willneed to infuse 41.67 mL/hr. Focus: Prioritization.184C H A P T E R 9185Neurologic Problems186Questions1. The nurse is assessing a client with a neurologic health problem and discoversa change in level of consciousness from alert to lethargic. What is the nurse'sbest action?1. Perform a complete neurologic assessment.2. Assess the cranial nerve functions.3. Contact the Rapid Response Team.4. Reassess the client in 30 minutes.2. The nurse on the neurologic acute care unit is assessing the orientation of aclient with severe headaches. Which questions would the nurse use todetermine orientation? Select all that apply.1. When did you first experience the headache symptoms?2. Who is the Mayor of Cleveland?3. What is your health care provider's name?4. What year and month is this?5. What is your parents’ address?6. What is the name of this health care facility?3. What is the priority nursing concern for a client experiencing a migraineheadache?1. Pain2. Anxiety3. Hopelessness4. Risk for brain injury4. The nurse is creating a teaching plan for a client with newly diagnosedmigraine headaches. Which key items will be included in the teaching plan?Select all that apply.1. Foods that contain tyramine, such as alcohol and aged cheese, should beavoided.2. Drugs such as nitroglycerin and nifedipine should be avoided.3. Abortive therapy is aimed at eliminating the pain during the aura.4. A potential side effect of medications is rebound headache.5. Complementary therapies such as biofeedback and relaxation may behelpful.6. Estrogen therapy should be continued as prescribed by the client's healthcare provider.5. After a client has a seizure, which action can the nurse delegate to theunlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1871. Documenting the seizure2. Performing neurologic checks3. Checking the client's vital signs4. Restraining the client for protection6. The nurse is preparing to admit a client with a seizure disorder. Which actioncan be assigned to an LPN/LVN?1. Completing the admission assessment2. Setting up oxygen and suction equipment3. Placing a padded tongue blade at the bedside4. Padding the side rails before the client arrives7. A nursing student is teaching a client and family about epilepsy before theclient's discharge. For which statement should the nurse intervene?1. “You should avoid consumption of all forms of alcohol.”2. “Wear your medical alert bracelet at all times.”3. “Protect your loved one's airway during a seizure.”4. “It's OK to take over-the-counter medications.”8. A client with Parkinson disease has a problem with decreased mobilityrelated to neuromuscular impairment. The nurse observes the unlicensedassistive personnel (UAP) performing all of these actions. For which actionmust the nurse intervene?1. Helping the client ambulate to the bathroom and back to bed2. Reminding the client not to look at his feet when he is walking3. Performing the client's complete bathing and oral care4. Setting up the client's tray and encouraging the client to feed himself9. The nurse is preparing to discharge a client with chronic low back pain.Which statement by the client indicates the need for additional teaching?1. “I will avoid exercise because the pain gets worse.”2. “I will use heat or ice to help control the pain.”3. “I will not wear high-heeled shoes at home or work.”4. “I will purchase a firm mattress to replace my old one.”10. A client with a spinal cord injury (SCI) reports sudden severe throbbingheadache that started a short time ago. Assessment of the client revealsincreased blood pressure (168/94 mm Hg) and decreased heart rate (48beats/min), diaphoresis, and flushing of the face and neck. What actionshould the nurse take first?1. Administer the ordered acetaminophen.2. Check the Foley tubing for kinks or obstruction.3. Adjust the temperature in the client's room.4. Notify the health care provider about the change in status.18811. Which client should the charge nurse assign to a new graduate RN who isorientating to the neurologic unit?1. A 28-year-old newly admitted client with a spinal cord injury2. A 67-year-old client who had a stroke 3 days ago and has left-sidedweakness3. An 85-year-old client with dementia who is to be transferred to long-termcare today4. A 54-year-old client with Parkinson disease who needs assistance withbathing12. A client with a spinal cord injury at level C3 to C4 is being cared for by thenurse in the emergency department (ED). What is the priority nursingassessment?1. Determine the level at which the client has intact sensation.2. Assess the level at which the client has retained mobility.3. Check blood pressure and pulse for signs of spinal shock.4. Monitor respiratory effort and oxygen saturation level.13. The nurse is floated from the emergency department to the neurologic floor.Which action should the nurse delegate to the unlicensed assistive personnel(UAP) when providing nursing care for a client with a spinal cord injury?1. Assessing the client's respiratory status every 4 hours2. Checking and recording the client's vital signs every 4 hours3. Monitoring the client's nutritional status, including calorie counts4. Instructing the client how to turn, cough, and breathe deeply every 2 hours14. The nurse is helping a client with a spinal cord injury to establish a bladderretraining program. Which strategies may stimulate the client to void? Selectall that apply.1. Stroking the client's inner thigh2. Pulling on the client's pubic hair3. Initiating intermittent straight catheterization4. Pouring warm water over the client's perineum5. Tapping the bladder to stimulate the detrusor muscle6. Reminding the client to void in a urinal every hour while awake15. A client with a cervical spinal cord injury has been placed in fixed skeletaltraction with a halo fixation device. When caring for this client, the nurse mayassign which actions to the LPN/LVN? Select all that apply.1. Checking the client's skin for pressure from the device2. Assessing the client's neurologic status for changes3. Observing the halo insertion sites for signs of infection4. Cleaning the halo insertion sites with hydrogen peroxide1895. Developing the nursing plan of care for the client6. Administering oral medications as ordered16. The nurse is preparing a nursing care plan for a client with a spinal cordinjury (SCI) for whom problems of decreased mobility and inability toperform activities of daily living (ADLs) have been identified. The client tellsthe nurse, “I don’t know why we’re doing all this. My life's over.” Based onthis statement, which additional nursing concern takes priority?1. Risk for injury2. Decreased nutrition3. Difficulty with coping4. Impairment of body image17. Which client should the charge nurse assign to the traveling nurse, new toneurologic nursing care, who has been on the neurologic unit for 1 week?1. A 34-year-old client with newly diagnosed multiple sclerosis (MS)2. A 68-year-old client with chronic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)3. A 56-year-old client with Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) in respiratorydistress4. A 25-year-old client admitted with a C4-level spinal cord injury (SCI)18. The critical care nurse is assessing a client whose baseline Glasgow ComaScale (GCS) score in the emergency department was 5. The current GCS scoreis 3. What is the nurse's best interpretation of this finding?1. The client's condition is improving.2. The client's condition is deteriorating.3. The client will need intubation and mechanical ventilation.4. The client's medication regime will need adjustments.19. A client with multiple sclerosis tells the unlicensed assistive personnel(UAP) after physical therapy that she is too tired to take a bath. What is thepriority nursing concern at this time?1. Fatigue2. Inability to perform activities of daily living (ADLs)3. Decreased mobility4. Muscular weakness20. An LPN/LVN, under the RN's supervision, is assigned to provide nursingcare for a client with Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS). What observationshould the LPN/LVN be instructed to report immediately?1. Reports of numbness and tingling2. Facial weakness and difficulty speaking3. Rapid heart rate of 102 beats/min4. Shallow respirations and decreased breath sounds19021. The RN notes that a client with myasthenia gravis has an elevatedtemperature (102.2°F [39°C]), an increased heart rate (120 beats/min), and arise in blood pressure (158/94 mm Hg) and is incontinent of urine and stool.What is the nurse's best action at this time?1. Administer an acetaminophen suppository.2. Notify the health care provider immediately.3. Recheck vital signs in 1 hour.4. Reschedule the client's physical therapy.22. The nurse is providing care for a client with an acute hemorrhagic stroke.The client's spouse tells the nurse that he has been reading a lot about strokesand asks why his wife has not received alteplase. What is the nurse's bestresponse?1. “Your wife was not admitted within the time frame that alteplase is usuallygiven.”2. “This drug is used primarily for clients who experience an acute heartattack.”3. “Alteplase dissolves clots and may cause more bleeding into your wife'sbrain.”4. “Your wife had gallbladder surgery just 6 months ago, so we can’t usealteplase.”23. The RN is supervising a senior nursing student who is caring for a clientwith a right hemisphere stroke. Which action by the student nurse requiresthat the RN intervene?1. Instructing the client to sit up straight and the client responds with apuzzled expression2. Moving the client's food tray to the right side of his over-bed table3. Assisting the client with passive range-of-motion (ROM) exercises4. Combing the hair on the left side of the client's head when the client alwayscombs his hair on the right side24. Which actions should the nurse delegate to an experienced unlicensedassistive personnel (UAP) when caring for a client with a thrombotic strokewho has residual left-sided weakness? Select all that apply.1. Assisting the client to reposition every 2 hours2. Reapplying pneumatic compression boots3. Reminding the client to perform active range-of-motion (ROM) exercises4. Assessing the extremities for redness and edema5. Setting up meal trays and assisting with feeding6. Using a lift to assist the client up to a bedside chair25. A client who had a stroke needs to be fed. What instruction should the nursegive to the unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) who will feed the client?1911. Position the client sitting up in bed before he or she is fed.2. Check the client's gag and swallowing reflexes.3. Feed the client quickly because there are three more clients to feed.4. Suction the client's secretions between bites of food.26. The nurse has just admitted a client with bacterial meningitis who reports asevere headache with photophobia and has a temperature of 102.6°F (39.2°C)orally. Which prescribed intervention should be implemented first?1. Administer codeine 15 mg orally for the client's headache.2. Infuse ceftriaxone 2000 mg IV to treat the infection.3. Give acetaminophen 650 mg orally to reduce the fever.4. Give furosemide 40 mg IV to decrease intracranial pressure.27. The nurse is mentoring a student nurse in the intensive care unit whilecaring for a client with meningococcal meningitis. Which action by thestudent requires that the nurse intervene most rapidly?1. Entering the room without putting on a protective mask and gown2. Instructing the family that visits are restricted to 10 minutes3. Giving the client a warm blanket when he says he feels cold4. Checking the client's pupil response to light every 30 minutes28. A 23-year-old client with a recent history of encephalitis is admitted to themedical unit with new-onset generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Which nursingactivities included in the client's care will be best to assign to an LPN/LVNwhom the nurse is supervising? Select all that apply.1. Observing and documenting the onset and duration of any seizure activity2. Administering phenytoin 200 mg PO three times a day3. Teaching the client about the need for frequent tooth brushing and flossing4. Developing a discharge plan that includes referral to the EpilepsyFoundation5. Assessing for adverse effects caused by new antiseizure medications6. Turning the client to his or her side to avoid aspiration29. Which nursing action will be implemented first if a client has a generalizedtonic-clonic seizure?1. Turn the client to one side.2. Give lorazepam 2 mg IV.3. Administer oxygen via nonrebreather mask.4. Assess the client's level of consciousness.30. A client who recently started taking phenytoin to control simple partialseizures is seen in the outpatient clinic. Which information obtained duringthe nurse's chart review and assessment will be of greatest concern?1. The gums appear enlarged and inflamed.1922. The white blood cell count is 2300/mm3 (2.3 x 109/L).3. The client sometimes forgets to take the phenytoin until the afternoon.4. The client wants to renew her driver's license in the next month.31. After the nurse receives the change-of-shift report at 7:00 am, which clientmust the nurse assess first?1. A 23-year-old client with a migraine headache who reports severe nauseaassociated with retching2. A 45-year-old client who is scheduled for a craniotomy in 30 minutes andneeds preoperative teaching3. A 59-year-old client with Parkinson disease who will need a swallowingassessment before breakfast4. A 63-year-old client with multiple sclerosis (MS) who has an oraltemperature of 101.8°F (38.8°C) and flank pain32. All of the following nursing care activities are included in the care plan for a78-year-old man with Parkinson disease who has been referred to the homehealth agency. Which activities will the nurse delegate to the unlicensedassistive personnel (UAP)? Select all that apply.1. Checking for orthostatic changes in pulse and blood pressure2. Assessing for improvement in tremor after levodopa is given3. Reminding the client to allow adequate time for meals4. Monitoring for signs of toxic reactions to anti-Parkinson medications5. Assisting the client with prescribed strengthening exercises6. Adapting the client's preferred activities to his level of function33. The nurse is in charge of developing a standard plan of care for anAlzheimer disease care facility and is responsible for assigning andsupervising resident care given by LPNs/LVNs and delegating andsupervising care given by unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP). Whichactivity is best to assign to the LPN/LVN team leaders?1. Checking for improvement in resident memory after medication therapy isinitiated2. Using the Mini-Mental State Examination to assess residents every 6months3. Assisting residents in using the toilet every 2 hours to decrease risk forurinary incontinence4. Developing individualized activity plans after consulting with residentsand family34. A client who has Alzheimer disease is hospitalized with new-onset angina.Her spouse tells the nurse that he does not sleep well because he needs to besure the client does not wander during the night. He insists on checking eachof the medications the nurse gives the client to be sure they are “the samepills she takes at home.” Based on this information, which nursing problem is193most appropriate for this client?1. Acute client confusion2. Care provider role stress3. Increased risk for falls4. Noncompliance with therapeutic plan35. The nurse is caring for a client with a glioblastoma who is receivingdexamethasone 4 mg IV push every 6 hours to relieve symptoms of right armweakness and headache. Which assessment information concerns the nursethe most?1. The client no longer recognizes family members.2. The blood glucose level is 234 mg/dL (13 mmol/L).3. The client reports a continuing headache.4. The daily weight has increased 2.2 lb (1 kg).36. A 70-year-old client with alcoholism who has become lethargic, confused,and incontinent during the last week is admitted to the emergencydepartment. His wife tells the nurse that he fell down the stairs about amonth ago but that “he didn’t have a scratch afterward.” Which collaborativeinterventions will the nurse implement first?1. Place the client on the hospital alcohol withdrawal protocol.2. Transport the client to the radiology department for a computedtomography (CT) scan.3. Make a referral to the social services department.4. Give the client phenytoin 100 mg PO.37. Which client in the neurologic intensive care unit should the charge nurseassign to an RN who has been floated from the medical unit?1. A 26-year-old client with a basilar skull fracture who has clear drainagecoming out of the nose2. A 42-year-old client admitted several hours ago with a headache and adiagnosis of a ruptured berry aneurysm3. A 46-year-old client who was admitted 48 hours ago with bacterialmeningitis and has an antibiotic dose due4. A 65-year-old client with an astrocytoma who has just returned to the unitafter undergoing craniotomy38. The nurse is providing care for a client newly diagnosed with earlyAlzheimer disease (AD). On assessment, which finding would the nurseexpect to discover?1. Short-term memory impairment2. Rapid mood swings3. Physical aggressiveness4. Increased confusion at night19439. For which client with severe migraine headaches would the nurse questionan order for sumatriptan?1. A 58-year-old client with gastrointestinal reflux disease2. A 48-year-old client with hypertension3. A 65-year-old client with mild emphysema4. A 72-year-old client with hyperthyroidism40. A client with Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) is to undergo plasmapheresisto remove circulating antibodies thought to be responsible for the disease.Which client care action should the nurse delegate to the experiencedunlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Observe the access site for ecchymosis or bleeding.2. Instruct the client that there will be three or four treatments.3. Weigh the client before and after the procedure.4. Assess the access site for bruit and thrill every 2 to 4 hours.195Answer Key1. Ans: 3 A change in level of consciousness and orientation is the earliest andmost reliable indication that central neurologic function has declined. If adecline occurs, contact the Rapid Response Team or health care providerimmediately. The nurse should also perform a focused assessment todetermine if there are any other changes. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 6 After determining alertness in a client, the next step is toevaluate orientation. When the client's attention is engaged, ask him or herquestions to determine orientation. Varying the sequence of questioning onrepeated assessments prevents the client from memorizing the answers.Responses that indicate orientation include the ability to answer questionsabout person, place, and time by asking for information such as the client'sability to relate the onset of symptoms, the name of his or her health careprovider or nurse, the year and month, his or her address, and the name ofthe referring physician or health care agency. Asking about mayors’ names orparents’ address may be inappropriate to assess orientation. Focus:Prioritization.3. Ans: 1 The priority for interdisciplinary care for the client experiencing amigraine headache is pain management. All of the other problems areaccurate, but none of them is as urgent as the issue of pain, which is oftenincapacitating. Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Medications such as estrogen supplements may actuallytrigger a migraine headache attack. All of the other statements are accurateand should be included in the teaching plan. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 3 Measurement of vital signs is within the education and scope ofpractice of UAPs. The nurse should perform neurologic checks and documentthe seizure. Clients with seizures should not be restrained; however, thenurse may guide the client's movements if necessary to prevent injury. Focus:Delegation, Supervision.6. Ans: 2 The LPN/LVN scope of practice includes setting up the equipment foroxygen and suctioning. The RN should perform the complete initialassessment. Controversy exists as to whether padded side rails actuallyprovide safety, and their use may embarrass the client and family. Tongueblades should not be at the bedside and should never be inserted into theclient's mouth after a seizure begins. Focus: Assignment, Supervision.7. Ans: 4 A client with a seizure disorder should not take over-the-countermedications without consulting with the health care provider first. The otherthree statements are appropriate teaching points for clients with seizuredisorders and their families. Focus: Delegation, Supervision; Test TakingTip: Remember that there are many drug interactions. For this reason, clientsshould consult with the health care provider before taking over-the-counter196drugs.8. Ans: 3 Although all of these actions fall within the scope of practice for aUAP, the UAP should help the client with morning care as needed, but thegoal is to keep this client as independent and mobile as possible. The clientshould be encouraged to perform as much morning care as possible.Assisting the client in ambulating, reminding the client not to look at his feet(to prevent falls), and encouraging the client to feed himself are allappropriate to the goal of maintaining independence. Focus: Delegation,Supervision.9. Ans: 1 Exercises are used to strengthen the back, relieve pressure oncompressed nerves, and protect the back from reinjury. Ice, heat, and firmmattresses are appropriate interventions for back pain. People with chronicback pain should avoid wearing high-heeled shoes at all times. Focus:Prioritization.10. Ans: 2 The client's signs and symptoms are characteristic of autonomicdysreflexia, a neurologic emergency that must be promptly treated to preventa hypertensive stroke. The cause of this syndrome is noxious stimuli, mostoften a distended bladder or constipation, so checking for poor catheterdrainage, bladder distention, and fecal impaction is the first action thatshould be taken. Adjusting the room temperature may be helpful because toocool a temperature in the room may contribute to the problem.Acetaminophen will not decrease the autonomic dysreflexia that is causingthe client's headache. Notifying the health care provider may be necessary ifnursing actions do not resolve symptoms. Focus: Prioritization.11. Ans: 2 The new graduate RN who is on orientation to the unit should beassigned to care for clients with stable, noncomplex conditions, such as theclient with stroke. The task of helping the client with Parkinson disease tobathe is best delegated to the unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP). The clientbeing transferred to the nursing home, and the newly admitted client withspinal cord injury should be assigned to experienced nurses. Focus:Assignment.12. Ans: 4 The first priority for the client with a spinal cord injury is assessingrespiratory patterns and ensuring an adequate airway. A client with a highcervical injury is at risk for respiratory compromise because spinal nerves C3through C5 innervate the phrenic nerve, which controls the diaphragm. Theother assessments are also necessary but are not as high a priority. Focus:Prioritization.13. Ans: 2 The UAP's training and education covers measuring and recordingvital signs. The UAP may help with turning and repositioning the client andmay remind the client to cough and deep breathe, but he or she does notteach the client how to perform these actions. Assessing and monitoringclients require additional education and are appropriate to the scope ofpractice of professional nurses. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.19714. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 5 All of the strategies except straight catheterization maystimulate voiding in clients with a spinal cord injury (SCI). Intermittentbladder catheterization can be used to empty the client's bladder, but it willnot stimulate voiding. To use a urinal, the client must have bladder control,which is often absent after SCI. In addition, every hour while awake wouldbe too often and ignore the bladder filling at night. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 6 Checking and observing for signs of pressure or infection iswithin the scope of practice of the LPN/LVN. The LPN/LVN also has theappropriate skills for cleaning the halo insertion sites with hydrogenperoxide. Administering oral drugs is within the scope of practice for anLPN/LVN. Neurologic examination and care plan development requireadditional education and skill appropriate to the professional RN. Focus:Assignment, Supervision; Test Taking Tip: The RN must be aware of thescope of practice for an LPN/LVN. This may vary from state to state and maydepend on whether the LPN/LVN has additional education. Generally, indepthassessment, care plan development, and in-depth client educationremain within the scope of practice of the professional RN.16. Ans: 3 The client's statement indicates difficulty with coping in adjusting tothe limitations of the injury and the need for additional counseling, teaching,and support. The other three nursing problems may be appropriate for aclient with SCI but are not related to the client's statement. Focus:Prioritization.17. Ans: 2 The traveling nurse is relatively new to neurologic nursing andshould be assigned clients whose condition is stable and not complex, such asthe client with chronic ALS. The newly-diagnosed client with MS will need alot of teaching and support. The client with respiratory distress will needfrequent assessments and may need to be transferred to the intensive careunit. The client with a C4-level SCI is at risk for respiratory arrest. All three ofthese clients should be assigned to nurses experienced in neurologic nursingcare. Focus: Assignment.18. Ans: 2 The GCS is used in many acute care settings to establish baselinedata in these areas: eye opening, motor response, and verbal response. Theclient is assigned a numeric score for each of these areas. The lower the score,the lower the client's neurologic function. A decrease of 2 or more points inthe Glasgow Coma Scale score total is clinically significant and should becommunicated to the health care provider immediately. Focus: Prioritization.19. Ans: 1 At this time, based on the client's statement, the priority is inability toperform ADLs most likely related to being tired (fatigue) after physicaltherapy. The other three nursing concerns are appropriate to a client with MSbut are not related to the client's statement. Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 4 The priority intervention for a client with GBS is maintainingadequate respiratory function. Clients with GBS are at risk for respiratoryfailure, which requires urgent intervention. The other findings are important198and should be reported to the nurse, but they are not life threatening. Focus:Prioritization, Assignment, Supervision.21. Ans: 2 The changes that the RN notes are characteristic of myasthenic crisis,which often follows some type of infection. The client is at risk for inadequaterespiratory function. In addition to notifying the health care provider orRapid Response Team, the nurse should carefully monitor the client'srespiratory status. The client may need intubation and mechanicalventilation. Focus: Prioritization.22. Ans: 3 Alteplase is a clot buster. In a client who has experiencedhemorrhagic stroke, there is already bleeding into the brain. A drug, such asalteplase, dissolves the clot and can cause more bleeding in the brain. Theother statements about the use of alteplase are accurate but are not pertinentto this client's diagnosis. Focus: Prioritization.23. Ans: 1 Clients with right cerebral hemisphere stroke often manifest neglectsyndrome. They lean to the left and, when asked, respond that they believethey are sitting up straight. They often neglect the left side of their bodies andignore food on the left side of their food trays. The nurse needs to remind thestudent of this phenomenon and discuss the appropriate interventions.Focus: Delegation, Supervision.24. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 An experienced UAP would know how to reposition theclient, reapply compression boots, and feed a client, and would remind theclient to perform activities the client has been taught to perform. UAPs arealso trained to use a client lift to get clients into or out of bed. Assessing forredness and swelling (signs of deep vein thrombosis) requires additionaleducation and skill, appropriate to the professional nurse. Focus: Delegation,Supervision.25. Ans: 1 Positioning the client in a sitting position decreases the risk ofaspiration. The UAP is not trained to assess gag or swallowing reflexes. Theclient should not be rushed during feeding. A client who needs suctioningperformed between bites of food is not handling secretions and is at risk foraspiration. Such a client should be assessed further before feeding. Focus:Delegation, Supervision.26. Ans: 2 Bacterial meningitis is a medical emergency, and antibiotics areadministered even before the diagnosis is confirmed (after specimens havebeen collected for culture). The other interventions will also help to reducecentral nervous system stimulation and irritation and should be implementedas soon as possible but are not as important as starting antibiotic therapy.Focus: Prioritization.27. Ans: 1 Meningococcal meningitis is spread through contact with respiratorysecretions, so use of a mask and gown is required to prevent transmission ofthe infection to staff members or other clients. The other actions may or maynot be appropriate. The presence of a family member at the bedside maydecrease client confusion and agitation. Clients with hyperthermia frequently199report feeling chilled, but warming the client is not an appropriateintervention. Checking the pupils’ response to light is appropriate but is notneeded every 30 minutes and is uncomfortable for a client with photophobia.Focus: Prioritization.28. Ans: 1, 2, 6 Any nursing staff member who is involved in caring for theclient should observe for the onset and duration of seizures (although a moredetailed assessment of seizure activity should be done by the RN).Administration of medications is included in LPN/LVN education and scopeof practice. Turning the client on his or her side to avoid aspiration iscertainly within the scope of practice for an LPN/LVN. Teaching, dischargeplanning, and assessment for adverse effects of new medications are complexactivities that require RN-level education and scope of practice. Focus:Assignment.29. Ans: 1 The priority action during a generalized tonic-clonic seizure is toprotect the airway by turning the client to one side to prevent aspiration.Administering lorazepam should be the next action because it will act rapidlyto control the seizure. Although oxygen may be useful during the postictalphase, the hypoxemia during tonic-clonic seizures is caused by apnea, whichcannot be corrected by oxygen administration. Checking level ofconsciousness is not appropriate during the seizure because generalizedtonic-clonic seizures are associated with a loss of consciousness. Focus:Prioritization.30. Ans: 2 Leukopenia is a serious adverse effect of phenytoin therapy andwould require discontinuation of the medication. The other data indicate aneed for further assessment or client teaching but will not require a change inmedical treatment for the seizures. Focus: Prioritization.31. Ans: 4 Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are a frequent complication in clientswith MS because of the effect of the disease on bladder function, and UTIsmay lead to sepsis in these clients. The elevated temperature and flank painsuggest that this client may have pyelonephritis. The health care providershould be notified immediately so that IV antibiotic therapy can be startedquickly. The other clients should be assessed as soon as possible, but theirneeds are not as urgent as those of this client. Focus: Prioritization.32. Ans: 1, 3, 5 UAP education and scope of practice include checking pulse andblood pressure measurements. The nurse would be sure to instruct the UAPto report heart rate and blood pressure findings. In addition, UAPs canreinforce previous teaching or skills taught by the RN or personnel in otherdisciplines, such as speech or physical therapists. Evaluating client responseto medications and developing and individualizing the plan of care requireRN-level education and scope of practice. Focus: Delegation.33. Ans: 1 LPN/LVN education and team leader responsibilities includechecking for the therapeutic and adverse effects of medications. Changes inthe residents’ memory would be communicated to the RN supervisor, who is200responsible for overseeing the plan of care for each resident. Assessing forchanges in score on the Mini-Mental State Examination and developing theplan of care are RN responsibilities. Assisting residents with personal careand hygiene would be delegated to UAPs working at the long-term carefacility. Focus: Assignment.34. Ans: 2 The husband's statement about lack of sleep and concern aboutwhether his wife is receiving the correct medications are behaviors thatsupport the problem of care provider role stress. The husband's statementsabout how he monitors the client and his concern with medicationadministration do not indicate difficulty complying with the therapeutic plan.The client may be confused, but the nurse would need to gather more data,and this is not the main focus of the husband's concerns. Falls are not animmediate concern at this time. Focus: Prioritization.35. Ans: 1 The inability to recognize family members is a new neurologic deficitfor this client and indicates a possible increase in intracranial pressure (ICP).This change should be communicated to the health care providerimmediately so that treatment can be initiated. The continuing headache alsoindicates that the ICP may be elevated but is not a new problem. The glucoseelevation and weight gain are common adverse effects of dexamethasone thatmay require treatment but are not emergencies. Focus: Prioritization.36. Ans: 2 The client's history and assessment data indicate that he may have achronic subdural hematoma. The priority goal is to obtain a rapid diagnosisand send the client to surgery to have the hematoma evacuated. The otherinterventions also should be implemented as soon as possible, but the initialnursing activities should be directed toward diagnosis and treatment of anyintracranial lesion. Focus: Prioritization.37. Ans: 3 Of the clients listed, the client with bacterial meningitis is in the moststable condition and likely the least complex. An RN from the medical unitwould be familiar with administering IV antibiotics. The other clients requireassessments and care from RNs more experienced in caring for clients withneurologic diagnoses. Focus: Assignment.38. Ans: 1 One of the first symptoms of AD is short-term memory impairment.Behavioral changes that occur late in the disease progression include rapidmood swings, tendency toward physical and verbal aggressiveness, andincreased confusion at night (when light is inadequate) or when the client isexcessively fatigued. Focus: Prioritization.39. Ans: 2 Sumatriptan is a triptan preparation developed to treat migraineheadaches. Most are contraindicated in clients with actual or suspectedischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular ischemia, hypertension, andperipheral vascular disease and in those with Prinzmetal angina because ofthe potential for coronary vasospasm. Focus: Prioritization.40. Ans: 3 The scope of practice for an experienced UAP would includeweighing clients. Observing, assessing, and providing instructions all require201additional educational preparation and are appropriate to the scope ofpractice for a professional nurse. Focus: Delegation.202C H A P T E R 1 0203Visual and Auditory Problems204Questions1. The nurse is reviewing medications that have been prescribed for severalclients who have disorders of the eye. Which medication prescription is themost important to discuss with the health care provider?1. Timolol for open-angle glaucoma2. Cromolyn sodium for allergic conjunctivitis3. Atropine for acute angle-closure glaucoma4. Ranibizumab for wet age-related macular degeneration2. The nurse is working in an ambulatory care clinic. A client calls to reportredness of the sclera, itching of the eyes, and increased lacrimation for severalhours. What should the nurse direct the caller to do first?1. “Please call your health care provider” (e.g., decline to advise).2. “Apply a cool compress to your eyes.”3. “If you are wearing contact lenses, remove them.”4. “Take an over-the-counter antihistamine.”3. At a community health clinic, the nurse is teaching a community group aboutthe prevention of accidental eye injuries. What is the most important thing tostress?1. Workplace policies for handling chemicals should be followed.2. Children and parents should be cautious about aggressive play.3. Protective eyewear should be worn during sports or hazardous work.4. Emergency eyewash stations should be established in the workplace.4. A nursing student is assisting an older client who is alert, conversant, andcognitively intact. The client has decreased vision related to maculardegeneration. When would the supervising nurse intervene?1. Student puts call bell and personal items within reach and locates each itemby guiding the client's hand.2. Student closes the curtains and turns off all of the lights at the end of theshift to encourage rest and sleep.3. Student talks to the client about family and asks, “So, when was the lasttime that you saw your uncle?”4. Student assists during mealtime by opening packages and describinglocation of foods by using clock coordinates.5. Which clients would be best to assign to the most experienced nurse in anambulatory care center that specializes in vision problems and eye surgery?Select all that apply.1. Client who requires postoperative instructions after cataract surgery2. Client who needs an eye pad and a metal shield applied2053. Client who requests a home health referral for dressing changes andeyedrop instillation4. Client who needs teaching about self-administration of eyedrops5. Client who requires an assessment for recent and sudden loss of sight6. Client who requires preoperative teaching for laser trabeculoplasty6. Place the following steps for eyedrop administration in the correct order.1. Gently press on the lacrimal duct for 1 minute.2. Gently pull tissue underneath eye downward to expose lower conjunctivalsac.3. Have the client gently close the eye and move it around.4. Have the client look up and instill the number of prescribed drops.5. Hold the dropper and stabilize hand on the client's forehead.6. Have the client sit down and tilt his or her head slightly backward._____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____7. Which tasks are appropriate to assign to an LPN/LVN who is functioningunder the supervision of an RN? Select all that apply.1. Administering sulfacetamide sodium 10% to a child with conjunctivitis2. Reviewing hand-washing and hygiene practices with clients who have eyeinfections3. Showing clients how to gently cleanse eyelid margins to remove crusting4. Assessing nutritional factors for a client with age-related maculardegeneration5. Reviewing the health history of a client to identify risk for ocularmanifestations6. Performing a routine check of a client's visual acuity using the Snellen eyechart8. The nurse is on a camping trip. A man is chopping wood and gets struck inthe eye with a piece of debris. On examination, a wood splinter is protrudingfrom his eyeball. What should the nurse do first?1. Have the man lie in the back seat of the car and drive him to the emergencydepartment.2. Gently remove the piece of wood and place a sterile dressing over the eye.3. Stabilize the area by carefully resting a plastic cup on the orbital rim andtaping it in place.4. Flush the eye with copious amounts of clean tepid water; then check visualacuity.9. The nurse is interviewing an older woman and discovers that she has beentaking her glaucoma eyedrops by mouth for the past week. What should thenurse do first?1. Obtain a prescription for tonometry so that her intraocular pressure can be206checked.2. Try to determine how frequently and how much she has been ingesting.3. Ask her how she decided to take the drops orally instead of instilling themas eyedrops.4. Call the Poison Control Center and be prepared to describe untoward sideeffects.10. The nurse is working in a community health clinic and a client needsinstructions for the care of a hordeolum (stye) on the right upper eyelid. Whatis the first intervention that the client should try?1. Apply warm compresses four times per day.2. Gently perform hygienic eyelid scrubs.3. Obtain a prescription for antibiotic drops.4. Contact the ophthalmologist.11. Which finding should be immediately reported to the health care provider?1. A change in color vision2. Crusty yellow drainage on the eyelashes3. Increased lacrimation4. A curtainlike shadow across the visual field12. In the care of a client who has sustained recent blindness, which tasks wouldbe appropriate to delegate to unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)? Select allthat apply.1. Counseling the client to express grief or loss2. Assisting the client with ambulating in the hall3. Orienting the client to the surroundings4. Encouraging independence5. Obtaining supplies for hygienic care6. Storing personal items to reduce clutter13. After cataract surgery, the client experiences all of the symptoms listedbelow. Which symptom needs to be immediately reported to the health careprovider?1. A scratchy sensation in the operative eye2. Loss of depth perception with the patch in place3. Poor vision 6 to 8 hours after patch removal4. Pain not relieved by prescribed medication14. A client reports a sudden excruciating pain in the left eye with the visualchange of colored halos around lights and blurred vision. Whichinterventions should the nurse expect and perform for this emergencycondition? Select all that apply.1. Prepare the client for photodynamic therapy.2072. Instill a mydriatic agent, such as phenylephrine.3. Instill a miotic agent, such as pilocarpine.4. Administer an oral hyperosmotic agent, such as isosorbide.5. Apply a cool compress to the forehead.6. Provide a darkened, quiet, and private space for the client.15. The nurse is preparing to administer a beta-adrenergic blocking glaucomaagent. Which statement made by the client warrants additional assessmentand notification of the health care provider?1. “My blood pressure runs a little high if I gain too much weight.”2. “Occasionally, I have palpitations, but they pass very quickly.”3. “My joints feel stiff today, but that's just my arthritis.”4. “My pulse rate is a little low today because I take digoxin.”16. The nurse is supervising a new nurse who has just finished assessing a clientfor redness and discomfort to the right eye. The new nurse documents“visual acuity N/A.” What should the supervising nurse do?1. Do nothing; the documentation is minimal but acceptable.2. Ask her to explain the rationale for the documentation.3. Reassess the client's eye and vision to validate findings.4. Suggest contacting the clinical educator for documentation tips.17. Which tasks are appropriate to assign to an LPN/LVN who is functioningunder the supervision of a team leader or RN? Select all that apply.1. Irrigating the ear canal to loosen impacted cerumen2. Administering amoxicillin to a child with otitis media3. Reminding the client not to blow the nose after tympanoplasty4. Counseling a client with Ménière disease5. Suggesting communication techniques for the family of a hearing-impairedolder adult6. Assessing a client with labyrinthitis for headache and level ofconsciousness18. The nurse is interviewing an older adult client who reports that “lately therehas been a roaring sound in my ears.” What additional assessments shouldthe nurse include? Select all that apply.1. Obtain a medication history.2. Ask about exposure to loud noises.3. Observe the canal for earwax or foreign body.4. Assess for signs and symptoms of ear infection.5. Ask about method of ear hygiene.6. Ask about diet and nutrition.19. A cheerful older widow comes to the community clinic for her annual208checkup. She is in reasonably good health, but she has a hearing loss of 40 dB.She confides, “I don’t get out much. I used to be really active, but the older Iget, the more trouble I have hearing. It can be really embarrassing.” What isthe priority nursing concept to consider in planning care for this client?1. Cognition2. Sensory perception3. Mood and affect4. Anxiety20. The client reports tinnitus. The nurse decides to review the client'smedication list to determine if any medications may be causing orcontributing to this adverse effect. Which combination of drugs is cause forgreatest concern?1. Gentamycin and ethacrynic acid2. Furosemide and metoprolol3. Vancomycin and nitroglycerin patch4. Aspirin and calcium supplement21. Which physical assessment findings should be reported to the health careprovider?1. Pearly gray or pink tympanic membrane2. Dense whitish ring at the circumference of the tympanum3. Bulging red or blue tympanic membrane4. Cone of light at the innermost part of the tympanum22. Which description by a client reporting vertigo is cause for greatest concern?1. Dizziness with hearing loss2. Episodic vertigo3. Vertigo without hearing loss4. “Merry-go-round” vertigo23. The nurse is aware that many eyedrops that are prescribed for glaucomacould cause potentially serious systemic effects. On the figure below identifythe area where the nurse will teach the client to apply punctal occlusion toprevent systemic absorption.20924. The nurse is caring for several clients who are having problems with theirears. Which client condition is cause for greatest concern?1. Has discomfort of the ear preceded by a viral infection; the tympanicmembrane is erythematous2. Has been treated with antibiotics for recurrent acute otitis media four timeswithin the past 6 months3. Reports rapid onset ear pain with pruritus and a sensation of fullness thatstarted after cleaning the ear canal with a finger4. Reports progressive severe otic pain with purulent discharge and ispositive for human immunodeficiency virus25. The nurse performed postoperative stapedectomy teaching several days agofor a client. Which comment by the client is cause for greatest concern?1. “I’m going to take swimming lessons in a couple of months.”2. “I have to take a long overseas flight in several weeks.”3. “I can’t wait to get back to my regular weightlifting class.”4. “I have been coughing a lot with my mouth open.”26. After examining the client's ear canal with an otoscope, the health careprovider instructs the nurse to irrigate the ear canal. Place the following stepsfor ear irrigation in the correct order.2101. Place the tip of the syringe at an angle in the external canal.2. Watch for fluid return and signs of cerumen.3. If cerumen does not appear, wait 10 minutes and repeat the irrigation.4. Fill a syringe with warm irrigating solution.5. After completion of the irrigation, have the client turn the head to the sideto facilitate drainage.6. Apply gentle but continuous pressure to the syringe plunger._____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____27. A nursing student is preparing the equipment to irrigate a client's ear canal.In which circumstances would the supervising nurse intervene before thestudent starts the irrigation? Select all that apply.1. Client has a probable perforated eardrum.2. Client has a foreign body, probably a bean, in the ear canal.3. Client has a foreign body, probably an insect, in the ear canal.4. Client has hearing loss related to impacted cerumen.5. Client is currently being treated for acute otitis media.6. Client has used ear candles in the past to remove ear wax.28. The nurse is working in a clinic that specializes in the care of clients with eardisorders. A client tells the nurse that he has been taking meclizine. Whichquestion is the nurse most likely to ask to evaluate the effectiveness of themedication?1. Has the medication helped to relieve the pain in the ear canal?2. Are you still experiencing the whirling and turning sensations?3. Have you been able to hear better since you started the medication?4. Are you still having the itching and discomfort in the outer ear?29. Phenylephrine, an adrenergic agonist, has been prescribed as a topicalapplication for a client as an aid to intraocular surgery. Although systemictoxicity is unlikely, which adverse physiologic response is the greatestconcern?1. Cardiovascular response, such as hypertension or ventricular dysrhythmias2. Renal response, such as urinary retention or urinary incontinence3. Respiratory response, such as bronchospasm or mucus plugs4. Musculoskeletal response, such as bone pain or joint stiffness30. An older client tells the home health nurse that several days ago, he hadranibizumab injected into his eye for treatment of wet age-related maculardegeneration. He is now experiencing redness, light sensitivity, and pain.What should the nurse tell the client?1. These are common side effects that should pass after a few more days.2. Contact the health care provider (HCP) immediately for possible eyeinfection.2113. Rest eyes as much as possible and wear sunglasses if lights are too bright.4. Inform the HCP before next the treatment so that the dosage can beadjusted.31. For a client who has multiple risk factors for primary open-angle glaucoma(POAG), which sign or symptom should be investigated as an early sign ofPOAG?1. Loss of central visual field2. Seeing halos around lights3. Mild eye aching4. Loss of peripheral vision212Answer Key1. Ans: 3 Atropine should not be used for acute angle-closure glaucoma.Atropine causes dilation of the pupil, which impedes outflow of aqueoushumor and increases intraocular pressure. This action could precipitate orworsen the condition. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 3 If the client is wearing contact lenses, the lenses may be causing thesymptoms, and removing them will prevent further eye irritation or damage.Policies on giving telephone advice vary among institutions, and knowledgeof the facility policy is essential. The other options may be appropriate, butadditional information is needed before suggesting anything else. Focus:Prioritization.3. Ans: 3 Most accidental eye injuries (90%) could be prevented by wearingprotective eyewear for sports and hazardous work. Other options should beconsidered in the overall prevention of injuries. Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 2 For clients who retain some vision, the room should be well-lit; even atnight, there should be a night light. Other options are correct actions. Wordssuch as “see, “look,” or “view” are parts of normal speech, and it's acceptableand natural to use these terms (e.g., “Well, it looks like you had a quiet daytoday”). Focus: Supervision.5. Ans: 1, 3, 5, 6 Providing postoperative and preoperative instructions, makinghome health referrals, and assessing for needs related to loss of vision shouldbe done by an experienced nurse who can give specific details andspecialized information about follow-up eye care and adjustment to loss. Theprinciples of applying an eye pad and shield and teaching the administrationof eyedrops are basic procedures that should be familiar to all nurses. Focus:Assignment.6. Ans: 6, 2, 5, 4, 3, 1 Have the client sit with the head tilted back. Pulling downthe lower conjunctival sac creates a small pocket for the drops. Stabilizing thehand prevents accidentally poking the client's eye. Having the client look upprevents the drops from falling on the cornea and stimulating the blinkreflex. When the client gently moves the eye, the medication is distributed.Pressing on the lacrimal duct prevents systemic absorption. Focus:Prioritization.7. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 6 Administering medications, reviewing and demonstratingstandard procedures, and performing standardized assessments withpredictable outcomes in noncomplex cases are within the scope of theLPN/LVN. Assessing for systemic manifestations and behaviors, risk factors,and nutritional factors is the responsibility of the RN. Focus: Assignment.8. Ans: 3 Penetrating objects should not be removed or disturbed by anyoneexcept an eye specialist because the object may be creating a tamponadeeffect. Removing or disrupting the object could result in additional damage to213the eye. The man needs to have emergency care, and 911 should be called, butif there are no emergency services available, the man should sit in the backseat of the car with a seat belt in place for transport to the nearest facility.After a penetrating eye injury has been assessed and treated by anophthalmologist, there is a possibility that based on the ophthalmologist'srecommendations, foreign body removal, flushing, and dressing applicationcould be accomplished in the emergency department; however, penetratingobjects frequently require surgical removal. Antibiotics and a tetanusimmunization are administered before the client is transferred to theoperating room. Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 2 Try to find out the amount and frequency that she has been taking thedrops by mouth. This information will be needed when calling theophthalmologist or Poison Control. A good follow-up question is to try tofind out why she is taking the drops by mouth. She may be very confused, orthere may have been an error of omission in client education by all healthcare team members who were involved in the initial prescription. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Remember that the first step of nursingprocess is assessment and gathering sufficient data. Always assess first unlesstaking the time to assess would be life threatening.10. Ans: 1 Warm compresses usually provide relief. If the problem persists,eyelid scrubs and antibiotic drops would be appropriate. Theophthalmologist could be consulted, but other providers such as the familyphysician or the nurse practitioner could give a prescription for antibiotics.Focus: Prioritization.11. Ans: 4 A curtainlike shadow is a symptom of retinal detachment, which is anemergency situation. A change in color vision is a symptom of cataract.Crusty drainage is associated with conjunctivitis. Increased lacrimation isassociated with many eye irritants, such as allergies, contact lenses, or foreignbodies. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: NCLEX® Examinationquestions frequently test the ability to identify life-threatening conditions, orin this case, the risk for permanent disability. In preparing to take theNCLEX® Examination, pay attention to signs and symptoms that signal lifethreateningconditions and those that could lead to permanent injury.12. Ans: 2, 5 Assisting the client with ambulating in the hall and obtainingsupplies are within the scope of practice of the UAP. Counseling foremotional problems, orienting the client to the room, and encouragingindependence require formative evaluation to gauge readiness, and theseactivities should be the responsibility of the RN. Storing items andrearranging furniture are inappropriate actions because the client needs beable to consistently locate objects in the immediate environment. Focus:Delegation; Test Taking Tip: Remember to differentiate whether the questionis about an acute or chronic condition. The nurse could delegate more tasks tothe UAP if the client's condition is chronic. For example, a client who hasbeen blind for a long time is less likely to need the nurse to prompt or assess214independence. However, for a client with a severely depressed respiratoryrate, the nurse would not delegate performing this vital sign to the UAP.13. Ans: 4 Pain may signal hemorrhage, infection, or increased ocular pressure.A scratchy sensation and loss of depth perception with the patch in place arecommon. Adequate vision may not return for 24 hours. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 3, 4, 5, 6 The client's symptoms are suggestive of angle-closureglaucoma. Immediate inventions include instillation of miotics, which openthe trabecular network and facilitate aqueous outflow, and intravenous ororal administration of hyperosmotic agents to move fluid from theintracellular space to the extracellular space. Applying cool compresses andproviding a dark, quiet space are appropriate comfort measures.Photodynamic therapy is a treatment for age-related macular degeneration.Use of mydriatics is contraindicated because dilation of the pupil will furtherblock the outflow. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 4 All beta-adrenergic blockers are contraindicated in bradycardia.Alpha-adrenergic agents can cause tachycardia and hypertension. Carbonicanhydrase inhibitors should not be given to clients with rheumatoid arthritiswho are taking high dosages of aspirin. Focus: Prioritization; Test TakingTip: Beta-adrenergic blockers “block” the receptor sites for epinephrine andnorepinephrine, which are responsible for the “fight-or-flight” response;therefore, remember these medications will slow the pulse rate.16. Ans: 2 Asking the nurse to explain the documentation is a way of assessingher knowledge of documentation, her understanding of how the client'sreport guides the focused assessment, and her understanding of the use ofabbreviations. The nurse may have a good reason for charting “N/A,” but areader could misunderstand. For example, “visual acuity N/A” could beinterpreted as the nurse making a clinical judgment that assessing vision wasnot applicable (important) for this client. The documentation is not acceptablebecause the client's report indicates that vision should be tested if at allpossible. Redoing the assessment does not help the nurse to correct mistakes.Contacting the educator for assistance is an option that is based onassessment of her rationale. Focus: Supervision, Prioritization.17. Ans: 1, 2, 3 Irrigating the ear, giving medication, and reminding the clientabout postoperative instructions that were given by an RN are within thescope of practice of the LPN/LVN. Counseling clients and families andassessing for meningitis signs in a client with labyrinthitis are theresponsibilities of the RN. Focus: Assignment.18. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Medications such as aspirin or diuretics (and many others)can cause tinnitus (ringing in the ears). Loud noises, impacted earwax orforeign bodies in the ear canal, or ear infections can also cause tinnitus. Askabout method of hygiene; insertion of cotton-tipped swabs may becontributing to the impaction of earwax. Diet and nutrition should always beassessed for older adult clients, but in this case, there is no direct relationship215to the client's report of roaring sound. Focus: Prioritization.19. Ans: 2 This client has a hearing loss, and it seems likely that a referral for ahearing aid or rehabilitation program will allow her to participate in herbaseline social habits. Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 1 The combination of gentamycin and ethacrynic acid can haveadditive effects because both are considered ototoxic. Furosemide,vancomycin, and aspirin are also considered ototoxic drugs. There could be afew clients who report tinnitus with metoprolol, nitroglycerin, and calciumsupplements, but these drugs are generally not known to have ototoxiceffects. Focus: Prioritization.21. Ans: 3 A bulging red or blue tympanic membrane is a possible sign of otitismedia or perforation. The other signs are considered normal anatomy. Focus:Prioritization.22. Ans: 3 The client reporting vertigo without hearing loss should be furtherassessed for nonvestibular causes, such as cardiovascular or metabolic. Theother descriptions are more commonly associated with inner ear orlabyrinthine causes. Focus: Prioritization.23. Ans:216Punctal occlusion decreases systemic absorption of eyedrops. The nurse teachesthe client to place pressure on the corner of the eye near the nose immediatelyafter eyedrop instillation. Focus: Prioritization.24. Ans: 4 Progressive severe otic pain with purulent discharge and granulationtissue of the external auditory canal are signs or symptoms of necrotizingotitis externa. This is a rare but potentially fatal condition because bacteriacan spread from the ear to the brain and cause meningitis.Immunocompromised clients, such as those who are positive for humanimmunodeficiency virus and older clients with diabetes, have an increasedrisk for this condition. Option 1 describes acute otitis media, which is treatedwith antibiotics. Option 2, recurrent acute otitis media, can be treated withshort-term antibiotic therapy, prophylactic antibiotic therapy, ortympanostomy tubes. Option 3 is describing swimmer's ear; this conditionreadily responds to antibiotic and antifungal eardrops. Focus: Prioritization;Test Taking Tip: Recall that any immunocompromised person has anincreased risk for infection. Signs and symptoms that signal infection shouldbe immediately reported to the health care provider because even minorinfections can become life threatening.25. Ans: 3 Heavy lifting should be strictly avoided for at least 3 weeks afterstapedectomy. Water in the ear and air travel should be avoided for at least 1week. Coughing and sneezing should be performed with the mouth open toprevent increased pressure in the ear. Focus: Prioritization.26. Ans: 4, 1, 6, 2, 3, 5 First, the health care provider or the nurse should use anotoscope to assess the ear (perforation, acute infection, or organic foreignbodies are contraindications for irrigation). The syringe is filled with warmfluid and angled in the ear canal to allow the fluid to flow along the side ofthe canal, not directly at the eardrum. Continuous gentle pressure is appliedrather than a pumping action. Fluid should return with cerumen. If not, thenurse waits at least 10 minutes and repeats the irrigation. Tipping the headallows gravity drainage of fluid from the ear canal. Focus: Prioritization.27. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 5 Ear canal irrigation is not performed if the client has aperforated eardrum or otitis media because of potential to spread theinfection to the inner ear. Vegetable matter or other organic matter can swellif it gets wet, so this would worsen the impaction. For insects, attemptsshould be made to coax the insect out with a flashlight if they are alive orsmothering with oil before attempting removal. Hearing loss related toimpacted cerumen is alleviated with earwax softeners and irrigation. Clientsshould be advised not to use ear candles or to insert other foreign objects intothe ear canal. Focus: Supervision.28. Ans: 2 Meclizine can be helpful for clients who have vertigo (sensation ofwhirling or turning in space). Meclizine is also prescribed for the symptomsof motion sickness. Focus: Prioritization.21729. Ans: 1 Topical phenylephrine usually does not cause systemic reactionsbecause the amount of absorption is very small. Cardiac responses(hypertension, dysrhythmias, or cardiac arrest) are the greatest concern.Other possible reactions may include sweating, tremors, agitation, orconfusion. Focus: Prioritization.30. Ans: 2 Ranibizumab is an angiogenesis inhibitor that is directly injected intothe vitreous humor of the eye. The purpose of the medication injection is toinhibit the growth of new blood vessels in clients who have neovascular agerelatedmacular degeneration. The biggest concern about adverse effects ofthe treatment is endophthalmitis. This can be caused by bacteria, virus, orfungus. Redness, light sensitivity, or pain are signs of possibleendophthalmitis that should be immediately reported to the provider. Focus:Prioritization.31. Ans: 3 POAG develops slowly, and irreversible damage to the optic nervecan occur before any signs or symptoms are manifested; however, mild eyeaching or headaches should be investigated as possible early signs of POAG.Loss of peripheral vision, seeing halos, and loss of central vision are latesigns. Focus: Prioritization.218C H A P T E R 11219Musculoskeletal Problems220Questions1. The nurse is caring for a patient who had a dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry(DEXA) scan and is now prescribed calcium with vitamin D twice a day. Thepatient asks the nurse the purpose of this drug. What is the nurse's bestresponse? Select all that apply.1. “When your calcium and vitamin D levels are low, your risk forosteoporosis and osteomalacia increases.”2. “When your vitamin D level is high, your bones release calcium to keepyour blood calcium level in the normal range.”3. “When your blood calcium is low, calcium is released from your bonesincreasing your risk for fractures.”4. “When blood calcium is normal, long bones are formed increasing aperson's height.”5. “The extra calcium and vitamin D will help protect your bones fromdamage such as fractures.”6. “You can also get extra vitamin D by increasing your intake of beef andpork sources.”2. The nurse is preparing a discussion of musculoskeletal health maintenancefor a group of older adults. Which key points would the nurse be sure toinclude? Select all that apply.1. Be aware of and consume foods rich in calcium and vitamin D.2. Wear hats and long sleeves to avoid sun exposure at all times.3. Consider exercise with low impact to avoid risk for injury.4. If you smoke, consider a smoking cessation program.5. Excessive alcohol intake can interfere with vitamins and nutrients for bonegrowth.6. Weight-bearing activities decrease the risk for osteoporosis.3. The nurse is caring for a patient with osteoporosis who is at increased risk forfalls. Which intervention should the nurse delegate to the unlicensed assistivepersonnel (UAP)?1. Identifying environmental factors that increase risk for falls2. Monitoring gait, balance, and fatigue level with ambulation3. Collaborating with the physical therapist to provide the patient with awalker4. Assisting the patient with ambulation to the bathroom and in the halls4. The nurse is preparing to teach a patient with a new diagnosis of osteoporosisabout strategies to prevent falls. Which teaching points should the nurse besure to include? Select all that apply.1. Wear a hip protector when ambulating.2212. Remove throw rugs and other obstacles at home.3. Exercise to help build your strength.4. Expect a few bumps and bruises when you go home.5. Rest when you are tired.6. Avoid consuming three or more alcoholic drinks per day.5. The nurse's assessment reveals all of these data when a patient with Pagetdisease is admitted to the acute care unit. Which finding should the nursenotify the health care provider about first?1. There is a bowing of both legs, and the knees are asymmetrical.2. The base of the skull is invaginated (platybasia).3. The patient is only 5 feet tall and weighs 120 lb.4. The skull is soft, thick, and larger than normal.6. The charge nurse observes an LPN/LVN assigned to provide all of theseinterventions for a patient with Paget disease. Which action requires that thecharge nurse intervene?1. Administering 600 mg of ibuprofen to the patient2. Encouraging the patient to perform exercises recommended by a physicaltherapist3. Applying ice and gentle massage to the patient's lower extremities4. Reminding the patient to drink milk and eat cottage cheese7. The charge nurse is making assignments for the day shift. Which patientshould be assigned to the nurse who was floated from the postanesthesia careunit (PACU) for the day?1. A 35-year-old patient with osteomyelitis who needs teaching beforehyperbaric oxygen therapy2. A 62-year-old patient with osteomalacia who is being discharged to a longtermcare facility3. A 68-year-old patient with osteoporosis given a new orthotic device whoseknowledge of its use must be assessed4. A 72-year-old patient with Paget disease who has just returned fromsurgery for total knee replacement8. The nurse delegates the measurement of vital signs to an experiencedunlicensed assistive personnel (UAP). Osteomyelitis has been diagnosed in apatient. Which vital sign value would the nurse instruct the UAP to reportimmediately for this patient?1. Temperature of 101°F (38.3°C)2. Blood pressure of 136/80 mm Hg3. Heart rate of 96 beats/min4. Respiratory rate of 24 breaths/min9. The nurse is working with unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) to provide222care for six patients. At the beginning of the shift, the nurse carefully tells theUAP what patient interventions and tasks he or she is expected to perform.Which “Four Cs” guide the nurse's communication with the UAP? Select allthat apply.1. Clear2. Comprehensive3. Concise4. Credible5. Correct6. Complete10. The nurse is caring for a patient with carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) who hasbeen admitted for surgery. Which intervention should be delegated to theunlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Initiating placement of a splint for immobilization during the day2. Assessing the patient's wrist and hand for discoloration and brittle nails3. Assisting the patient with daily self-care measures such as bathing andeating4. Testing the patient for painful tingling in the four digits of the hand11. The nurse observes the unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) performing allof these interventions for a patient with carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). Whichaction requires that the nurse intervene immediately?1. Arranging the patient's lunch tray and cutting his meat2. Providing warm water and assisting the patient with his bath3. Replacing the patient's splint in hyperextension position4. Reminding the patient not to lift very heavy objects12. A patient is scheduled for endoscopic carpal tunnel release surgery in themorning. What would the nurse be sure to teach the patient?1. Pain and numbness are expected to be experienced for several days toweeks.2. Immediately after surgery, the patient will no longer need assistance.3. After surgery, the dressing will be large, and there will be lots of drainage.4. The patient's pain and paresthesia will no longer be present.13. The charge nurse assigns the nursing care of a patient who has just returnedfrom open carpal tunnel release surgery to an experienced LPN/LVN, whowill perform under the supervision of an RN. Which instructions would theRN provide for the LPN/LVN? Select all that apply.1. Check the patient's vital signs every 15 minutes in the first hour.2. Check the dressing for drainage and tightness.3. Elevate the patient's hand above the heart.4. The patient will no longer need pain medication.2235. Check the neurovascular status of the fingers every hour.6. Instruct the patient to perform range of motion on the affected wrist.14. The nurse is preparing a patient who had carpal tunnel release surgery fordischarge. Which information is important to provide for this patient?1. The surgical procedure is a cure for carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS).2. Do not lift any heavy objects.3. Frequent doses of pain medication will no longer be necessary.4. The health care provider should be notified immediately if there is any painor discomfort.15. The nurse is providing care for a patient with a rotator cuff tear. Whattreatment does the nurse expect the health care provider will prescribe firstfor this patient?1. Arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff tear2. Elimination of movements in the affected shoulder3. Conservative therapies such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs(NSAIDs) and physical therapy4. Pendulum exercises that start slow and progress over 2 weeks16. The emergency department nurse receives a call about a patient with atraumatic finger amputation. What instructions does the nurse provide to thepatient's wife? Select all that apply.1. Wrap the completely severed finger in dry sterile gauze (if available) or aclean cloth.2. Put the finger in a watertight, sealed plastic bag.3. Place the bag directly on ice.4. Elevate the affected extremity above the patient's heart.5. Examine the amputation site and apply direct pressure with layers of drygauze.6. After performing these steps, call 911 and check the patient for breathing.17. When receiving discharge instructions, a patient with osteoporosis makes allof these statements. Which statement indicates to the nurse that the patientneeds additional teaching?1. “I take my ibuprofen every morning as soon as I get up.”2. “My daughter removed all of the throw rugs in my home.”3. “My husband helps me every afternoon with range-of-motion exercises.”4. “I rest in my reclining chair every day for at least an hour.”18. A patient has a fractured femur. Which finding would the nurse instruct theunlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) to report immediately?1. The patient reports pain.2. The patient appears confused.2243. The patient's blood pressure is 136/88 mm Hg.4. The patient voided using the bedpan.19. After the nurse receives change-of-shift report, which patient should beassessed first?1. A 42-year-old patient with carpal tunnel syndrome who reports pain2. A 64-year-old patient with osteoporosis awaiting discharge3. A 28-year-old patient with a fracture who reports that the cast is tight4. A 56-year-old patient with a left leg amputation who reports phantom pain20. A patient with a fractured fibula is receiving skeletal traction and hasskeletal pins in place. What would the nurse instruct the unlicensed assistivepersonnel (UAP) to report immediately?1. The patient wants to change position in bed.2. There is a small amount of clear fluid at the pin sites.3. The traction weights are resting on the floor.4. The patient reports pain and muscle spasm.21. The nurse is supervising a new graduate RN caring for a patient with afracture of the right ankle who is at risk for complications of immobility. Forwhich action should the supervising nurse intervene?1. Encouraging the patient to go from a lying to a standing position2. Administering pain medication before the patient begins exercises3. Explaining to the patient and family the purpose of the exercise program4. Reminding the patient about the correct use of crutches22. The charge nurse is assigning the nursing care of a patient who had a leftbelow-the-knee amputation 1 day ago to an experienced LPN/LVN, who willfunction under an RN's supervision. What will the RN tell the LPN/LVN isthe major focus for the patient's care today?1. To attain pain control over phantom pain2. To monitor for signs of sufficient tissue perfusion3. To assist the patient to ambulate as soon as possible4. To elevate the residual limb when the patient is supine23. A patient with a right above-the-knee amputation asks the nurse why he hasphantom limb pain. What is the nurse's best response?1. “Phantom limb pain is not explained or predicted by any one theory.”2. “Phantom limb pain occurs because your body thinks your leg is stillpresent.”3. “Phantom limb pain will not interfere with your activities of daily living.”4. “Phantom limb pain is not real pain but is remembered pain.”24. During morning care, a patient with a below-the-knee amputation asks theunlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) about prostheses. How will the nurse225instruct the UAP to respond?1. “You should get a prosthesis so that you can walk again.”2. “Wait and ask your doctor that question the next time he comes in.”3. “It's too soon to be worrying about getting a prosthesis.”4. “I’ll ask the nurse to come in and discuss this with you.”25. During assessment of a patient with fractures of the medial ulna and radius,the nurse finds all of these data. Which assessment finding should the nursereport to the health care provider immediately?1. The patient reports pressure and pain.2. The cast is in place and is dry and intact.3. The skin is pink and warm to the touch.4. The patient can move all the fingers and the thumb.26. A patient who underwent a right above-the-knee amputation 4 days agoalso has a diagnosis of depression. Which order would the nurse clarify withthe health care provider?1. Give fluoxetine 40 mg once a day.2. Administer acetaminophen with codeine 1 or 2 tablets every 4 hours asneeded.3. Assist the patient to the bedside chair every shift.4. Reinforce the dressing to the right residual limb as needed.27. The nurse is caring for a postoperative patient with a hip replacement.Which patient care actions can be delegated to the experienced unlicensedassistive personnel (UAP)? Select all that apply.1. Inspect heels and other bony prominences every 8 hours.2. Turn and reposition the patient every 2 hours.3. Assure that the patient's heels are elevated off the bed.4. Assess the patient's calf regions for redness and swelling.5. Check vital signs and oxygen saturation via pulse oximetry.6. Assess for pain and administer pain medication.28. The emergency department (ED) nurse should question which health careprovider order when providing care for an older adult with a fracture of theleft ulna?1. Get x-rays of left forearm.2. Give meperidine IM for pain.3. Monitor vital signs every hour.4. Elevate left arm on pillows.29. The RN is mentoring a student nurse who is caring for a patient with carpaltunnel syndrome of the right hand with neurovascular check ordered every 2hours. For which action by the student nurse must the RN intervene?2261. Student nurse checks the patient's radial pulse every 2 hours.2. Student nurse checks for sensation in the patient's right hand.3. Student nurse assesses color, temperature, and pain in right wrist andhand.4. Student nurse instructs the patient to avoid movement because of the pain.30. The nurse is preparing a patient for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).Which action can the nurse delegate to the experienced unlicensed assistivepersonnel (UAP)?1. Teach the patient what to expect during the test.2. Instruct the patient to remove metal objects including zippers.3. Witness that the patient has signed the consent form.4. Check and record preprocedure vital signs.31. The nurse is teaching an older patient about risks for fractures andosteoporosis. Which diagnostic test should the nurse teach about when thegoal is to establish the patient's bone strength and determine if osteoporosis ispresent?1. Computed tomography (CT) scan2. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan3. Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA or DEXA) scan4. Joint x-rays32. The RN is receiving a patient with peripheral vascular disease from thepostanesthesia care unit (PACU) after a Syme amputation of the right lowerextremity. At which level on this diagram would the RN expect to find theamputation?2271. A2. B3. C4. D228Answer Key1. Ans: 1, 3, 5 Vitamin D and its metabolites are produced in the body andtransported in the blood to promote the absorption of calcium andphosphorus from the small intestine. A decrease in the body's vitamin D levelcan result in osteomalacia (softening of bone) in an adult. When serumcalcium levels are lowered, parathyroid hormone (PTH, or parathormone)secretion increases and stimulates bone to promote osteoclastic activity andrelease calcium to the blood. PTH reduces the renal excretion of calcium andfacilitates its absorption from the intestine. Sources of vitamin D includesunlight, fatty fish, and vitamin D–enriched foods. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 Many health problems of the musculoskeletal system can beprevented through health promotion strategies and avoidance of riskylifestyle behaviors. Weight-bearing activities such as walking can reduce riskfactors for osteoporosis and maintain muscle strength. Young men are at thegreatest risk for trauma related to motor vehicle crashes. Older adults are atthe greatest risk for falls that result in fractures and soft tissue injury. Highimpactsports, such as excessive jogging or running, can causemusculoskeletal injury to soft tissues and bone. Tobacco use slows thehealing of musculoskeletal injuries. Excessive alcohol intake can decreasevitamins and nutrients the person needs for bone and muscle tissue growth.Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 4 Assisting with activities of daily living, including assisting withambulation to the bathroom, is within the scope of the UAP's practice. Theother three interventions require additional educational preparation and arewithin the scope of practice of licensed nurses. Focus: Delegation,Supervision.4. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 5 The purpose of the teaching is to help the patient prevent falls.The hip protector can prevent hip fractures if the patient falls. Throw rugsand obstacles in the home increase the risk of falls. Patients who are tired arealso more likely to fall. Exercise helps to strengthen muscles and improvecoordination. Women should not consume more than one drink per day, andmen should not consume more than two drinks per day. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 2 Platybasia (basilar skull invagination) causes brainstem manifestationsthat threaten life. Patients with Paget disease are usually short and often havebowing of the long bones that results in asymmetrical knees or elbowdeformities. The skull is typically soft, thick, and enlarged. Focus:Prioritization.6. Ans: 3 Applying heat, not ice, is the appropriate measure to help reduce thepatient's pain. Ibuprofen is useful to manage mild to moderate pain. Exerciseprescribed by a physical therapist would be nonimpact in nature and providestrengthening for the patient. A diet rich in calcium promotes bone health.229Focus: Assignment, Supervision; Test Taking Tip: The charge nurse wouldbe familiar with the usual care of a patient with Paget disease. Supervise theLPN/LVN so that he or she would stop the ice treatment and explain to theLPN/LVN that the use of heat is preferable to reduce the patient's pain.7. Ans: 4 The PACU nurse is very familiar with the assessment skills necessaryto monitor a patient who just underwent surgery. For the other patients,nurses familiar with musculoskeletal system–related nursing care are neededto provide teaching and assessment and prepare a report to the long-termcare facility. Focus: Assignment.8. Ans: 1 An elevated temperature indicates infection and inflammation. Thispatient needs IV antibiotic therapy. The other vital sign values are normal orhigh normal. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.9. Ans: 1, 3, 5, 6 Clear, concise, correct, complete are the “Four Cs” ofcommunication. Implementing the four Cs of communication helps the nurseensure that the UAP understands what is being said; that the UAP does notconfuse the nurse's directions; that the directions comply with policies,procedures, job descriptions, and the law; and that the UAP has all theinformation necessary to complete the tasks assigned. Focus: Delegation,Supervision.10. Ans: 3 Helping with activities of daily living (e.g. bathing, feeding) is withinthe scope of practice of UAPs. Placing a splint for the first time is appropriateto the scope of practice of physical therapists. Assessing and testing forparesthesia are not within the scope of practice of UAPs and is appropriatefor professional nurses. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.11. Ans: 3 When a patient with CTS has a splint to immobilize the wrist, thewrist is placed either in the neutral position or in slight extension, nothyperextension. The other interventions are correct and are within the scopeof practice of a UAP. UAPs may remind patients about elements of their careplans such as avoiding heavy lifting. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.12. Ans: 1 Postoperative pain and numbness occur for a longer period of timewith endoscopic carpal tunnel release than with an open procedure. Patientsoften need assistance postoperatively, even after they are discharged. Thedressing from the endoscopic procedure is usually very small, and thereshould not be a lot of drainage. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 5 Postoperatively, patients undergoing open carpal tunnelrelease surgery experience pain and numbness, and their discomfort may lastfor weeks to months. Hand movements may be restricted for 4 to 6 weeksafter surgery. All of the other directions are appropriate for the postoperativecare of this patient. It is important to monitor for drainage, tightness, andneurovascular changes. Raising the hand and wrist above the heart reducesthe swelling from surgery, and this is often done for several days. Focus:Assignment, Supervision.14. Ans: 2 Hand movements, including heavy lifting, may be restricted for 4 to 6230weeks after surgery. Patients experience discomfort for weeks to months aftersurgery. The surgery is not always a cure; in some cases, CTS may recurmonths to years after surgery. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 3 For the patient with a torn rotator cuff, the health care providerusually treats the patient conservatively with NSAIDs, intermittent steroidinjections, physical therapy, and activity limitations while the tear heals.Physical therapy treatments may include ultrasound, electrical stimulation,ice, and heat. Focus: Prioritization.16. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 5 For a person who has a traumatic amputation in thecommunity, first call 911 and then assess the patient for airway or breathingproblems. Examine the amputation site, and apply direct pressure with layersof dry gauze or cloth. Elevate the extremity above the patient's heart todecrease the bleeding. Do not remove the dressing to prevent dislodging theclot. Wrap the completely severed finger in dry sterile gauze (if available) or aclean cloth. Put the finger in a watertight, sealed plastic bag. Place the bag inice water, never directly on ice, with 1 part ice and 3 parts water. Avoidcontact between the finger and the water to prevent tissue damage. Do notremove any semidetached parts of the digit. Be sure that the part goes withthe patient to the hospital. Focus: Prioritization.17. Ans: 1 Ibuprofen can cause abdominal discomfort or pain and ulceration ofthe gastrointestinal tract. In such cases, it should be taken with meals or milk.Removal of throw rugs helps prevent falls. Range-of-motion exercises andrest are important strategies for coping with osteoporosis. Focus:Prioritization.18. Ans: 2 Fat embolism syndrome is a serious complication that often resultsfrom fractures of long bones. Its earliest manifestation is altered mental statuscaused by a low arterial oxygen level. The nurse would want to know aboutand treat the pain, but it is not life threatening. The nurse would also want toknow about the blood pressure and the patient's voiding; however, thisinformation is not urgent to report. Focus: Prioritization, Delegation,Supervision.19. Ans: 3 The patient with the tight cast is at risk for circulation impairmentand peripheral nerve damage. Although all of the other patients’ concerns areimportant and the nurse will want to see them as soon as possible, none oftheir complaints is urgent, but the patient with the tight cast may have riskfor injury to a limb. Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 3 When the weights are resting on the floor, they are not exertingpulling force to provide reduction and alignment or to prevent muscle spasm.The weights should always hang freely. Attending to the weights may reducethe patient's pain and spasm. With skeletal pins, a small amount of clear fluiddrainage is expected. It is important to inspect the traction system after apatient changes position because position changes may alter the traction.Focus: Delegation, Supervision, Prioritization.23121. Ans: 1 Moving directly from a lying to a standing position does not allowthe patient to establish balance. The supervising nurse should instruct thenew graduate RN about moving the patient from a lying position first, thento a sitting position, and finally to a standing position, which will allow thepatient to establish balance before standing. Administering pain medicationbefore the patient begins exercising decreases pain with exercise.Explanations about the purpose of the exercise program and proper use ofcrutches are appropriate interventions with this patient. Focus: Delegation,Supervision.22. Ans: 2 Monitoring for sufficient tissue perfusion is the priority at this time.Phantom pain is a concern but is more common in patients with above-thekneeamputations. Early ambulation is a goal, but at this time, the patient ismore likely to be engaged in muscle-strengthening exercises. Elevating theresidual limb on a pillow is controversial because it may promote kneeflexion contracture. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.23. Ans: 1 Three theories are being researched with regard to phantom limbpain. The peripheral nervous system theory holds that sensations remain as aresult of the severing of peripheral nerves during the amputation. The centralnervous system theory states that phantom limb pain results from a loss ofinhibitory signals that were generated through afferent impulses from theamputated limb. The psychological theory helps predict and explainphantom limb pain because stress, anxiety, and depression often trigger orworsen a pain episode. Focus: Prioritization.24. Ans: 4 The patient is indicating an interest in learning about prostheses. Theexperienced nurse can initiate discussion and begin educating the patient.Certainly, the health care provider can also discuss prostheses with thepatient, but the patient's wish to learn should receive a quick response. Thenurse can then notify the health care provider about the patient's request.Focus: Delegation, Supervision.25. Ans: 1 Pressure and pain may be caused by increased compartment pressureand can indicate the serious complication of acute compartment syndrome.This situation is urgent. If it is not treated, cyanosis, tingling, numbness,paresis, and severe pain can occur. The other findings are normal and shouldbe documented in the patient's chart. Focus: Prioritization.26. Ans: 1 Doses of fluoxetine, a drug used to treat depression, that are greaterthan 20 mg should be given in two divided doses, not once a day. The otherthree orders are appropriate for a patient who underwent amputation 4 daysearlier. Focus: Prioritization.27. Ans: 2, 3, 5 The UAP's scope of practice includes repositioning patients andchecking vital signs, and an experienced UAP would know how to checkpulse oximetry and elevate the patient's heels off the bed. Assessing andinspecting patients is more appropriate to the educational level of theprofessional nurse. Focus: Delegation.23228. Ans: 2 Meperidine should not be used because of its toxic metabolites thatcan cause seizures and other adverse drug events, especially in the olderadult population. X-rays are used to confirm the diagnosis. Vital signs andelevation are common actions for a patient in the ED, and elevation candecrease the swelling in the affected extremity. Focus: Prioritization; TestTaking Tip: Questions often focus on actions or findings specific to olderadults because there are many differences as adults age. Meperidine isseldom used for pain relief in any patient now because of its negative effects.29. Ans: 4 Performing complete neurovascular assessment (also called a “circcheck”) includes palpation of pulses in the extremities below the level ofinjury and assessment of sensation, movement, color, temperature, and painin the injured part. If pulses are not palpable, use of a Doppler helps findpulses in the extremities. After surgery, the patient should be given painmedication and encouraged to move the fingers frequently. Some handmovements such as lifting heavy objects may be restricted for 4 to 6 weeksafter surgery. Focus: Prioritization.30. Ans: 4 The UAP's scope of practice includes checking and recording patientvital signs. Teaching and instructing, as well as witnessing consent forms, isappropriate to the professional RN's scope of practice. The UAP couldremind the patient about removal of metal objects after the patient receivesinstructions. Focus: Delegation.31. Ans: 3 Testing bone density (how strong the bones are) is the only way toknow for sure if a patient has osteoporosis. A diagnostic test commonlyprescribed by health care providers is DXA or DEXA. This type of scanfocuses on two main areas, the hip and the spine. However, the forearm canbe tested if the hip or spine cannot be tested. The other tests may beprescribed but are not as commonly used to test bone strength. Focus:Prioritization.32. Ans: 3 When a patient has a Syme amputation, most of the foot is removedbut the ankle remains. Advantages of this surgery over below the kneeinclude that the patient can still be weight bearing (with a prosthesis) andthere is less pain. Focus: Prioritization.233C H A P T E R 1 2234Gastrointestinal and NutritionalProblems235Questions1. The charge nurse is reviewing the medication administration records forseveral clients. Which situation needs to be brought to the attention of theprescribing health care provider?1. A client with gastroesophageal reflux disease is receiving magnesiumhydroxide.2. An older adult client with new-onset constipation is getting psyllium threetimes a day.3. A client who needs a bowel prep is getting polyethylene glycol-electrolytesolution.4. A client with abdominal pain secondary to diverticulitis is receivingbisacodyl.2. When a client is being prepared for a colonoscopy procedure, which task ismost suitable to delegate to unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Explaining the need for a clear liquid diet2. Reinforcing “NPO” status3. Administering laxatives as needed4. Administering an enema to prepare the bowel3. The nurse is reviewing medication lists for clients who are being treated forpeptic ulcer disease (PUD). The nurse is most likely to question the use ofwhich medication?1. Ibuprofen2. Omeprazole3. Amoxicillin4. Clarithromycin4. The nurse would be most concerned about a prescription for a totalparenteral nutrition (TPN) fat emulsion for a client with which condition?1. Gastrointestinal (GI) obstruction2. Severe anorexia nervosa3. Chronic diarrhea and vomiting4. Fractured femur5. The nurse is preparing to administer total parenteral nutrition (TPN) througha central line. Place the following steps for administration in the correct order.1. Thread the IV tubing through an infusion pump.2. Check the solution for cloudiness or turbidity.3. Connect the tubing to the central line, using aseptic technique.4. Select and flush the correct tubing and filter.2365. Set the infusion pump at the prescribed rate.6. Confirm the order for TPN before administration._____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____6. The nurse is caring for a client with peptic ulcer disease (PUD). Whichassessment finding is the most serious?1. Projectile vomiting2. Burning sensation 2 hours after eating3. Coffee-ground emesis4. Boardlike abdomen with shoulder pain7. The nurse is taking an initial history for a client seeking surgical treatment forobesity. Which finding should be called to the attention of the surgeon?1. Obesity for approximately 5 years2. History of counseling for body dysmorphic disorder3. Failure to reduce weight with other forms of therapy4. Body weight 100% above the ideal for age, gender, and height8. The nurse is taking report on an elderly client who was admitted withabdominal pain and nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. The client also has ahistory of chronic dementia. Which comment by the night shift nurse is mostconcerning?1. The client has a flat affect and rambling and repetitive speech.2. The client has memory impairments and thinks the year is 1948.3. The client lacks motivation and demonstrates early morning awakening.4. The client has a fluctuating level of consciousness and mood swings.9. In the care of a client with gastroesophageal reflux disease, which task wouldbe appropriate to delegate to unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Sharing successful strategies for weight reduction2. Encouraging the client to express concerns about lifestyle modification3. Reminding the client not to lie down for 2 to 3 hours after eating4. Explaining the rationale for eating small frequent meals10. The client needs diagnostic testing to confirm symptoms of peptic ulcerdisease (PUD), and the health care provider tells the nurse that the clientprefers noninvasive methods. Which brochure is the nurse most likely toprepare for the client?1. “Three Simple Ways to Detect H. pylori Using Your Blood, Breath, or Stool.”2. “How Your Doctor Uses a Chest and Abdomen X-ray Series to DetectPUD.”3. “Esophagogastroduodenoscopy: The Major Diagnostic Test for PUD.”4. “Common Questions and Answers About Nuclear Medicine Scans.”11. The nurse is providing the immediate postoperative care for a client who237had fundoplication to reinforce the lower esophageal sphincter for thepurpose of a hiatal hernia repair. What is the priority action for the care ofthis client?1. Elevate the head of the bed at least 30 degrees.2. Assess the nasogastric tube for yellowish-green drainage.3. Assist the client to start taking a clear liquid diet.4. Assess the client for gas bloat syndrome.12. A client with chronic hepatitis C has been taking the antiviral medicationledipasvir–sofosbuvir daily for the past month. Which information gatheredduring a home visit is most important for the nurse to communicate to thehealth care provider?1. The client reports frequent headaches.2. The client complains of feeling chronically tired.3. The client occasionally misses a dose of the medication.4. The client always takes the medication just before eating.13. Which client is the most appropriate to assign to an LPN/LVN under thesupervision of an RN?1. A client with oral cancer who is scheduled in the morning for glossectomy2. An obese client returned from surgery after a vertical banded gastroplasty3. A client with anorexia nervosa who has muscle weakness and decreasedurine output4. A client with intermittent nausea and vomiting related to chemotherapy14. For clients with peptic ulcer disease (PUD), what is the most importantlifestyle modification?1. Avoiding caffeine2. Decreasing alcohol intake3. Smoking cessation4. Controlling stress15. The postoperative care of a morbidly obese client is being planned. Whichtask best uses the expertise of the LPN/LVN, under the supervision of the RNteam leader?1. Obtaining an oversized blood pressure cuff and a large-size bed2. Setting up a reinforced trapeze bar3. Assisting in the planning of toileting, turning, and ambulation4. Assigning tasks to unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) and other ancillarystaff16. A client with proctitis needs a rectal suppository. A senior nursing studentassigned to care for this client tells the nurse that she is afraid to insert asuppository because she has never done it before. What is the mostappropriate action in supervising this student?2381. Give the medication and tell the student to talk to the instructor.2. Ask the student to leave the clinical area because she is unprepared.3. Reassign the client to an LPN/LVN and send the student to observe.4. Show the student how to insert the suppository and talk to the instructor.17. The nurse is teaching the client and family how to perform colostomyirrigation. Place the following information in the correct order.1. Hang the container at about shoulder height.2. Allow solution to flow slowly and steadily for 5 to 10 minutes.3. Don clean gloves and put 500 to 1000 mL of lukewarm water in thecontainer.4. Lubricate the stoma cone and gently insert the tubing tip into the stoma.5. Clean, rinse, and dry the skin, and apply a new drainage pouch.6. Allow 15 to 20 minutes for initial evacuation; then the client should walkfor 30 to 45 minutes for secondary evacuation._____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____18. The nurse is caring for a client with a nasogastric (NG) tube. Which task canbe delegated to experienced unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Removing the NG tube at the prescribed time2. Securing the tape if the client accidentally dislodges the tube3. Disconnecting the suction to allow ambulation to the toilet4. Reconnecting the suction after the client has ambulated19. The nurse is planning a treatment and prevention program for chronicbowel incontinence for an elderly client. Which intervention should the nursetry first?1. Administer a glycerin suppository 15 minutes before evacuation time.2. Insert a rectal tube at specified intervals each day.3. Assist the client to the commode or toilet 30 minutes after meals.4. Use incontinence briefs or adult-sized diapers.20. A client hospitalized with ulcerative colitis reports 10 to 20 small diarrheastools per day, with abdominal pain before defecation. The client appearsdepressed and underweight and is uninterested in self-care or suggestedtherapies. What is the priority nursing concept to consider when planninginterventions for this client?1. Elimination2. Nutrition3. Pain4. Adherence21. While transferring a dirty laundry bag, an unlicensed assistive personnel(UAP) sustains a puncture wound to the finger from a contaminated needle.239The unit has several clients with hepatitis and acquired immunodeficiencysyndrome; the needle source is unknown. Place the following instructions, forthe UAP, in the correct order of priority.1. Have blood test(s) performed per protocol.2. Complete and file an incident report.3. Perform a thorough aseptic hand washing.4. Report to the occupational health nurse.5. Follow up for laboratory results and counseling.6. Begin prophylactic drug therapy._____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____22. The home health nurse sees that the client is taking cimetidine. Whatquestion is the nurse most likely to ask to evaluate the efficacy of thetherapy?1. “Are you still having problems with constipation?”2. “Has the medication helped to relieve the acid indigestion?”3. “Did the medication relieve the nausea and vomiting?”4. “Do you feel like your appetite has improved?”23. The nurse is caring for an obese postoperative client who underwent surgeryfor bowel resection. As the client is moving in bed, he comments, “Somethingpopped open.” Upon examination, the nurse notes wound evisceration. Placethe steps in order for handling this complication.1. Cover the intestine with sterile moistened gauze.2. Stay calm and stay with the client.3. Check the vital signs, especially blood pressure and pulse.4. Have a colleague gather sterile supplies and contact the health careprovider (HCP).5. Put the client into semi-Fowler position with knees slightly flexed.6. Prepare the client for surgery as ordered._____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____24. The nurse is providing postoperative care for a client who underwentlaparoscopic cholecystectomy. What should be reported immediately to thehealth care provider?1. The client cannot void 5 hours postoperatively.2. The client reports shoulder pain.3. The client reports right upper quadrant pain.4. Output does not equal input for the first few hours.25. An older adult client tells the home health nurse that he puts 17 g ofpolyethylene glycol in a large cup of coffee every morning. Which assessmentis the nurse most likely to perform first?1. Assess the client for signs of dehydration or electrolyte imbalances.2402. Assess for signs and symptoms of overdose and then call Poison Control.3. Ask the client to describe frequency and consistency of bowel movements.4. Ask the client what he understands about the purpose of the medication.26. In the care of a client with acute viral hepatitis, which task should bedelegated to unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Emptying the bedpan while wearing gloves2. Playing games or engaging the client in diversional activities3. Monitoring dietary preferences4. Reporting signs and symptoms of jaundice27. The nurse is caring for a client with cirrhosis and portal hypertension. Whichstatement by the client is cause for greatest concern?1. “I’m very constipated and have been straining during bowel movements.”2. “I can’t button my pants anymore because my belly is so swollen.”3. “I have a tight sensation in my lower legs when I forget to put my feet up.”4. “When I sleep, I have to sit in a recliner so that I can breathe more easily.”28. For clients coming to the ambulatory care gastrointestinal clinic, which taskwould be most appropriate to assign to an LPN/LVN?1. Teaching a client self-care measures for an ulcer2. Assisting the health care provider to incise and drain a pilonidal cyst3. Evaluating a client's response to sitz baths for an anorectal abscess4. Describing the basic pathophysiology of an anal fistula to a client29. A client underwent an exploratory laparotomy 2 days ago. The health careprovider (HCP) should be called immediately for which physical assessmentfinding?1. Abdominal distention and rigidity2. Displacement of the nasogastric (NG) tube3. Absent or hypoactive bowel sounds4. Nausea and occasional vomiting30. The nurse must rearrange the room assignments for clients. Which clientswould be best to put in the same room? Select all that apply.1. A 35-year-old woman with copious intractable nausea and vomiting2. A 43-year-old woman who underwent cholecystectomy 2 days ago3. A 53-year-old woman with pain related to alcohol-associated pancreatitis4. A 62-year-old woman with colon cancer receiving chemotherapy andradiation5. A 70-year-old woman with stool culture results that show Clostridiumdifficile6. A 55-year-old woman who is having symptoms after an exposure tonorovirus24131. The nurse is caring for a client who was recently admitted for severediverticulitis. Which task is appropriate to delegate or assign for the care ofthis client?1. Tell the unit secretary to call radiology and schedule a barium enema.2. Ask the LPN/LVN to give as needed (PRN) laxatives when the clientreports constipation.3. Instruct the nursing student to help the client ambulate up and down thehall.4. Tell unlicensed assistive personnel to save a stool specimen to test foroccult blood.32. The nurse is caring for a client who was admitted to the medical-surgicalunit for observation after being evaluated in the emergency department forblunt trauma to the abdomen. Which instructions are appropriate to give tounlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Check the client's skin temperature and report if the skin feels cool.2. Check urometer every hour and observe for red- or pink-tinged urine.3. Check vital signs every hour and report all of the values.4. Check the client's pain and report worsening of pain or discomfort.33. Place the steps for performing colostomy care in the correct order.1. Fit the pouch snugly around the stoma.2. Assess the color and appearance of the stoma.3. Wash the skin with mild soap and rinse with warm water.4. Apply a skin barrier to protect the peristomal skin.5. Dry the skin carefully.6. Don a pair of clean gloves and remove the old pouch._____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____34. Clients who are undernourished or starved for prolonged periods are at riskfor refeeding syndrome when nourishment is first given. What is the prioritynursing assessment to prevent complications associated with this syndrome?1. Monitor for peripheral edema, crackles in the lungs, and jugular veindistention.2. Monitor for decreased bowel sounds, nausea, bloating, and abdominaldistention.3. Observe for signs of secret purging and ingestion of water to increaseweight.4. Assess for alternating constipation and diarrhea and pale clay-coloredstools.35. The nurse is caring for a client who was admitted for advanced cirrhosis.The client has massive ascites, peripheral dependent edema in the lowerextremities, nausea and vomiting, and dyspnea related to pressure on the242diaphragm. Which indicator is the most reliable for tracking fluid retention?1. Auscultating the lung fields for crackles every day2. Measuring the abdominal girth every morning3. Performing daily weights with the same amount of clothing4. Checking the extremities for pitting edema and comparing with baseline36. The nurse hears in hand-off report that, 1 hour ago, the health care providerrequested that the client be given the maximum dose of magnesiumhydroxide. Which instruction is the nurse most likely to give to unlicensedassistive personnel?1. Client will frequently need assistance to the bathroom for bowelevacuation.2. Client may experience some dizziness when ambulating or changingposition.3. Client is frequently vomiting and may need linen and gown changes.4. Client needs to be encouraged and assisted to eat and drink as much aspossible.37. A client with end-stage liver disease is talking to the nurse about being onthe transplant list. Which statement by the client is cause for greatestconcern?1. “I have a family history of diabetes.”2. “I had symptoms of asthma when I was a kid.”3. “I guess I should cut back on my alcohol consumption.”4. “I am not very good about taking prescribed medication.”38. The nursing is supervising a nursing student who is caring for a client whohad a cholecystectomy. There is a T-tube in place. The nurse would interveneif the student performs which action?1. Maintains the client in a semi-Fowler position2. Checks the amount, color, and consistency of the drainage3. Gently aspirates the drainage from the tube4. Inspects the skin around the tube for redness or irritation39. An older adult client tells the home health nurse that she is takingmethylcellulose for chronic constipation. Which behavior is cause for greatestconcern?1. Client primarily eats white bread and drinks low-fat milk.2. Client takes the methylcellulose three times a day.3. Client takes the medication with a few sips of water.4. Client does not promptly act on the urge to defecate.40. A male nurse tells an older male client that he needs to perform a digitalexamination of the rectum to check for possible fecal impaction. The clientresponds, “I’m not letting any homosexual get near me.” What should the243nurse do first?1. Explain that the procedure is a nursing action, not a sexual advance.2. Ask the charge nurse to reassign that client to a different nurse.3. Document that the client refused to allow the examination.4. Ask the client if the presence of a female staff member would be acceptable.41. The client has portal hypertension and hepatic encephalopathy secondary toliver disease and is being treated with lactulose. Which laboratory result willthe nurse check first to see if the medication is having the desired effect?1. White blood cell count2. Ammonia level3. Potassium level4. Platelet count42. The client has a medical diagnosis of acute appendicitis. On the figurebelow, mark the area of the abdomen where the client is most likely to reportabdominal pain and tenderness.244245Answer Key1. Ans: 4 Laxatives should not be administered to clients with undiagnosedabdominal pain, cramps, or nausea. Appendicitis, diverticulitis, ulcerativecolitis, acute surgical abdomens, and bowel obstruction are alsocontraindications. The other clients are receiving medications that areappropriate for their conditions. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 2 The UAP can reinforce dietary and fluid restrictions after the RN hasexplained the information to the client. It is also possible that the UAP canadminister the enema; however, special training is required, and policies mayvary among institutions. Medication administration should be performed bylicensed personnel. Focus: Delegation.3. Ans: 1 Ibuprofen is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), andNSAIDs are thought to be one of the aggravating factors of PUD.Omeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin are used as a triple combinationtherapy for treatment of PUD. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip:NSAIDs are commonly prescribed and self-selected as over-the-countermedications; thus, knowing the pharmacology, drug–drug interactions, andside effects are worthwhile for test taking purposes and clinical practice.4. Ans: 4 A client with a fractured femur is at risk for fat embolism, so a fatemulsion should be used with caution. Vomiting may be a problem if theemulsion is infused too rapidly. TPN is commonly used in clients with GIobstruction, severe anorexia nervosa, and chronic diarrhea or vomiting.Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 6, 2, 4, 1, 3, 5 The nurse should always check the order beforeadministering TPN; generally, each bag is individually prepared by thepharmacist. The solution should not be cloudy or turbid. Prepare theequipment by priming the tubing and threading the pump. To preventinfection, scrub the hub and use aseptic technique when inserting theconnector into the injection cap and connecting the tubing to the central line.Set the pump at the prescribed rate. Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 4 A boardlike abdomen with shoulder pain is a symptom of aperforation, which is the most lethal complication of PUD. A burningsensation is a typical report and can be controlled with medications. Projectilevomiting can signal an obstruction. Coffee-ground emesis is typical of slowerbleeding, and the client will require diagnostic testing. Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 2 Body dysmorphic disorder is a preoccupation with an imaginedphysical defect. Corrective surgery can exacerbate this disorder when theclient continues to feel dissatisfied with the results. The other findings arecriterion indicators for this treatment. Focus: Prioritization.8. Ans: 4 Fluctuating level of consciousness and mood swings are associatedmore with acute delirium, which could be caused by many things, such as246electrolyte imbalances, sepsis, or medications. Information about the client'sbaseline behavior is essential; however, based on knowledge ofpathophysiology, the nurse knows that flat affect and rambling and repetitivespeech, memory impairments, and disorientation to time are behaviorstypically associated with chronic dementia. Lack of motivation and earlymorning awakening are associated with depression. Focus: Prioritization;Test Taking Tip: A sudden change in level of consciousness and mentalstatus signal a need to conduct further assessment for an acute process. Thisquestion requires the ability to differentiate between acute and chronicdisease processes and accompanying symptoms.9. Ans: 3 Reminding the client to follow through on advice given by the nurse isan appropriate task for the UAP. The RN should take responsibility forteaching rationale, discussing strategies for the treatment plan, and assessingclient concerns. Focus: Delegation.10. Ans: 1 H. pylori is frequently associated with PUD, and the organism can bedetected through breath, blood, or stool. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy is thebest test for PUD; however, it is considered an invasive procedure. Chest andabdominal series may be ordered if perforation is suspected, and a nuclearmedicine scan may be ordered if gastrointestinal bleeding is present. Focus:Prioritization.11. Ans: 1 The primary concern in the immediate postoperative period is thepotential for airway complications. Elevating the head at least 30 degreesdecreases the chance for aspiration and facilitates respiratory effort. The otheroptions are also correct but will occur later in the postoperative period.Focus: Prioritization.12. Ans: 3 Effective treatment of chronic hepatitis C requires careful adherenceto the medication regimen for the entire treatment time (usually 12 weeks).Headache and fatigue are common adverse effects of ledipasvir–sofosbuvir,and the medication can be taken with or without food. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 4 Nausea and vomiting are common after chemotherapy.Administration of antiemetics and fluid monitoring can be done by anLPN/LVN. The RN should perform the preoperative teaching for theglossectomy client. Clients returning from surgery need extensiveassessment. The client with anorexia is showing signs of hypokalemia and isat risk for cardiac dysrhythmias. Focus: Assignment.14. Ans: 3 Smoking is associated with PUD. The other lifestyle modificationsmay be desirable, but the current evidence does not show strong linkage tothe development of or recovery from PUD. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 3 The LPN/LVN can offer valuable assistance in planning theinterventions, but the RN has ultimate responsibility for the care plan. TheLPN/LVN can delegate and assign tasks to UAPs; however, if the RN is theteam leader, it is better if UAPs are not receiving instructions from multiplepeople. Obtaining equipment should be delegated to a UAP. A physical247therapist should be contacted to set up specialized equipment. Focus:Assignment.16. Ans: 4 Showing the student how to insert the suppository meets both theimmediate client need and the student's learning need. The instructor canaddress the student's fears and long-term learning needs after he or she isaware of the incident. It is preferable that students express fears and learningneeds. The other options will discourage the student's future disclosure ofclinical limitations and need for additional training. Focus: Supervision,Assignment.17. Ans: 3, 1, 4, 2, 6, 5 Putting on a pair of clean gloves protects the hands fromcolostomy secretions. The water should be warm (cold water can causecramping), and the container should be hung at shoulder height (hanging thecontainer too high or too low will alter the rate of flow). Lubricating thestoma and gently inserting the tubing tip will allow the water to flow into thestoma. A slow and steady flow prevents cramps and spillage. Providingadequate time allows for complete evacuation. Walking stimulates the bowel.Careful attention to the skin prevents breakdown. Focus: Prioritization.18. Ans: 3 Disconnecting the tube from suction is an appropriate task todelegate. (The nurse must give specific instructions or verify that the UAPknows how to do this task.) Suction should be reconnected by the nurse sothat correct pressure is checked. If the UAP is permitted to reconnect the tube,the RN is still responsible for checking that the pressure setting is correct.During removal of the tube, there is a potential for aspiration, so the nurseshould perform this task. If the tube is dislodged, the nurse should recheckplacement before it is secured. Focus: Delegation.19. Ans: 3 The goal of bowel training is to establish a pattern that mimicsnormal defecation, and many people have the urge to defecate after a meal. Ifthis is not successful, a suppository can be used to stimulate the urge. The useof incontinence briefs is embarrassing for the client, and they must bechanged frequently to prevent skin breakdown. Routine use of rectal tubes isnot recommended because of the potential for damage to the mucosa andsphincter tone. Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 1 The immediate problem is controlling the diarrhea. Addressing thisproblem is a step toward correcting the nutritional imbalance and decreasingthe diarrheal cramping. Self-care and adherence with the treatment plan areimportant long-term goals that can be addressed when the client is feelingbetter physically. Focus: Prioritization.21. Ans: 3, 4, 1, 6, 2, 5 Immediate decontamination is appropriate becauseexposure time can affect viral load. The occupational health nurse will directthe UAP to get the appropriate laboratory tests, obtain prophylaxis within 72hours (the sooner the better), file the correct forms, and follow up on results.Focus: Prioritization, Supervision.22. Ans: 2 Cimetidine is available over the counter and is used to relieve248heartburn, acid indigestion, and sour stomach. Focus: Prioritization.23. Ans: 2, 5, 3, 4, 1, 6 Stay calm and stay with the client. Any increase in intraabdominalpressure will worsen the evisceration; placement of the client in asemi-Fowler position with knees flexed will decrease the strain on the woundsite. (Note: If shock develops, the client's head should be lowered.)Continuously monitor vital signs (particularly for a decrease in bloodpressure or increase in pulse rate) while a colleague gathers supplies andnotifies the HCP. Covering the site protects tissue. Ultimately, the client willneed emergency surgery. Focus: Prioritization.24. Ans: 3 Right upper quadrant pain is a sign of hemorrhage or bile leakage.The ability to void should return within 6 hours postoperatively. Rightshoulder pain is related to unabsorbed carbon dioxide and will be resolvedby placing the client in a Sims position. For the first several hours aftersurgery, output is not expected to equal input. Focus: Prioritization.25. Ans: 3 The client is taking the recommended dose of polyethylene glycol.Polyethylene glycol is used for the treatment of chronic constipation, so thenurse would assess the effect that the medication is having on bowelmovements. Reviewing understanding of medications is always a good ideaif the nurse has time. Older adult clients generally have a greater risk fordehydration and fluid and electrolyte imbalances, so this should be a routineassessment. Focus: Prioritization.26. Ans: 1 The UAP should use infection control precautions for the protectionof self, employees, and other clients. Monitoring is an RN responsibility.UAPs can report valuable information; however, they are not responsible fordetecting signs and symptoms that can be subtle or hard to detect, such asskin changes. Although playing games with the client may be ideal, it israrely possible on a medical-surgical unit. Focus: Delegation.27. Ans: 1 There is a potential for sudden rupture of fragile blood vessels withmassive hemorrhage because straining increases thoracic or abdominalpressure. The client could have fluid accumulation in the abdomen (ascites)that can be mild and hard to detect or severe enough to cause orthopnea.Dependent peripheral edema can also be observed but is less urgent. Focus:Prioritization.28. Ans: 2 Assisting with procedures for clients in stable condition withpredictable outcomes is within the educational preparation of the LPN/LVN.Teaching the client about self-care or pathophysiology and evaluating theoutcome of interventions are responsibilities of the RN. Focus: Assignment.29. Ans: 1 Distention and rigidity can signal hemorrhage or peritonitis. TheHCP may also decide that these symptoms require a medication to stimulateperistalsis. Absence of bowel sounds is expected within the first 24 to 48hours. Nausea and vomiting are not uncommon and are usually self-limiting,and a PRN prescription for an antiemetic is usually part of the routinepostoperative prescriptions. The NG tube should be assessed for249displacement, and the correct position of the tube must be confirmed. Thenurse then secures the tube as necessary. Focus: Prioritization.30. Ans: 2, 3 The client who had a cholecystectomy and the client withpancreatitis will need frequent pain assessments and medications. Clientswith copious diarrhea or vomiting frequently need contact isolation.Clostridium difficile is frequently identified in health care-acquired infections.Norovirus is highly contagious and symptoms include abdominal pain,vomiting, and diarrhea. Clients with cancer receiving chemotherapy are atrisk for immunosuppression and are likely to need protective isolation.Focus: Assignment.31. Ans: 4 Diverticulitis can cause chronic or severe bleeding, so if there is noobvious blood in the stool, the stool may be tested for occult blood. A bariumenema is not usually ordered because of the danger of perforation. Laxativesand ambulation increase intestinal motility and are to be avoided in the initialphase of treatment. If a barium enema, PRN laxative, or ambulation areprescribed, the nurse should check with the health care provider beforedelegating these interventions. Focus: Delegation.32. Ans: 3 The UAP can take vital signs and report all of the values to the RN. Inthis case, all of the values are needed to detect trends. In other cases, thenurse may decide to give parameters for reporting. The RN should assessskin temperature and pain and closely monitor the urine because quantity isan indicator of perfusion and fluid status. Red or pink urine can signaldamage to the urinary system, transfusion reaction, or rhabdomyolysis.Focus: Delegation.33. Ans: 6, 2, 3, 5, 4, 1 A pair of clean gloves should be put on before touchingthe skin or pouch. The stoma should be assessed for a healthy pink color.Washing, rinsing, and drying the skin and applying a skin barrier help toprotect the skin. A good fit prevents gastric contents from spilling onto theskin. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Mental rehearsal is a learningtechnique that helps in acquiring a new skill. Mentally visualizing each stepis also useful in answering this type of question.34. Ans: 1 Refeeding syndrome occurs when aggressive and rapid feedingresults in fluid retention and heart failure. Electrolytes, especiallyphosphorus, should be monitored, and the client should be observed forsigns of fluid overload. Changes in bowel sounds, nausea, and distentionmay occur but are also appropriate for any client with nutritional issues or forclients receiving enteral feedings. Observing for purging and water ingestionwould be appropriate for a client with an eating disorder. Changes in stoolpatterns may occur but are not related to refeeding syndrome. Focus:Prioritization.35. Ans: 3 All of these measures should be performed for total care of the client;however, weighing the client every day is considered the single best indicatorof fluid volume. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: In studying for the250NCLEX® Examination, don’t neglect fundamentals textbooks. This questionis based on fundamental knowledge of fluids and fluid management.36. Ans: 1 The maximum dose of magnesium hydroxide is given for bowelevacuation and cleansing. It is expected that the medication should haveeffect within 2 to 6 hours. Focus: Supervision.37. Ans: 3 Substance abuse may exclude a person from the transplant list, so thenurse should conduct additional assessment about this comment. Thecomment about difficulty in taking prescription medications should also beinvestigated because a true inability to follow the treatment regimen wouldalso exclude the client from the list. Focus: Prioritization.38. Ans: 3 T-tubes should not be irrigated, aspirated, or clamped withoutspecific directions from the health care provider. All of the other actions areappropriate in the care of this client. Focus: Supervision.39. Ans: 3 Methylcellulose can cause esophageal obstruction if taken withinsufficient amounts of fluid. Intestinal obstruction is also a possibility if thepassage is slowed or impeded. Three times a day is within the acceptabledose range. High fiber and a prompt response to urge to defecate should beencouraged to restore natural and normal bowel movements. Focus:Prioritization.40. Ans: 4 The nurse is likely to feel upset, even angry; however, ideally, thenurse focuses on the client and tries to find a solution that allows the care tocontinue. Having a female witness in the room may reassure the client thatnothing untoward will happen. If the client continues to express hostility andrejection, then the nurse could ask the charge nurse to reassign the client. Incases, of emergency, the nurse would acknowledge the client's feelings butfirmly explain that the intervention can’t be delayed. (e.g., “I see you aredispleased, but this __________ has to be done right now.”) All attempts andinterventions should be documented. Focus: Prioritization.41. Ans: 2 The healthy liver breaks down ammonia, but in liver disease, theammonia accumulates, and serum levels increase. Lactulose helps byenhancing intestinal excretion of ammonia. Focus: Prioritization.42. Ans:251The client is likely to report pain and tenderness over the right lower quadrant(RLQ). Deep palpation should not be performed because of the possibility ofrupture. If the medical diagnosis has been confirmed, palpation may bedeferred because even light and gentle palpation may be very painful. Focus:Prioritization.252C H A P T E R 1 3253Diabetes Mellitus254Questions1. The nurse is caring for an older patient with type 1 diabetes and diabeticretinopathy. What is the nurse's priority concern for assessing this patient?1. Assess ability to measure and inject insulin and to monitor blood glucoselevels.2. Assess for damage to motor fibers, which can result in muscle weakness.3. Assess which modifiable risk factors can be reduced.4. Assess for albuminuria, which may indicate kidney disease.2. An older patient with type 2 diabetes has cardiovascular autonomicneuropathy (CAN). Which instruction would the nurse provide for theunlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) assisting the patient with morning care?1. Provide a complete bed bath for this patient.2. Sit the patient up slowly on the side of the bed before standing.3. Only let the patient wash his or her face and brush his or her teeth.4. Be sure to provide rest periods between activities.3. The nurse is preparing to review a teaching plan for a patient with type 2diabetes mellitus. To determine the patient's level of compliance with hisprescribed diabetic regimen, which value would the nurse be sure to review?1. Fasting glucose level2. Oral glucose tolerance test results3. Glycosylated hemoglobin (HgbA1c) level4. Fingerstick glucose findings for 24 hours4. A patient has newly-diagnosed type 2 diabetes. Which task should the RNdelegate to an experienced unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Arranging a consult with the dietitian2. Assessing the patient's insulin injection technique3. Teaching the patient to use a glucometer to monitor glucose at home4. Checking the patient's glucose level before each meal5. A patient with newly diagnosed diabetes has peripheral neuropathy. Whichkey points should the nurse include in the teaching plan for this patient?Select all that apply.1. “Clean and inspect your feet every day.”2. “Be sure that your shoes fit properly.”3. “Nylon socks are best to prevent friction on your toes from shoes.”4. “Only a podiatrist should trim your toenails.”5. “Report any nonhealing skin breaks to your health care provider (HCP).”6. “Use a thermometer to check the temperature of water before taking a255bath.”6. An LPN/LVN is assigned to perform assessments on two patients withdiabetes. Assessments reveals all of these findings. Which finding would theRN instruct the LPN/LVN to report immediately?1. Fingerstick glucose reading of 185 mg/dL (10.3 mmol/L)2. Numbness and tingling in both feet3. Profuse perspiration4. Bunion on the left great toe7. The plan of care for a patient with diabetes includes all of these interventions.Which intervention should the nurse delegate to unlicensed assistivepersonnel (UAP)?1. Reminding the patient to put on well-fitting shoes before ambulating2. Discussing community resources for diabetic outpatient care3. Teaching the patient to perform daily foot inspection4. Assessing the patient's technique for drawing insulin into a syringe8. A 58-year-old patient with type 2 diabetes was admitted to the acute care unitwith a diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)exacerbation. When the RN prepares a care plan for this patient, what wouldhe or she be sure to include? Select all that apply.1. Fingerstick blood glucose checks before meals and at bedtime2. Sliding-scale insulin dosing as prescribed3. Bed rest until the COPD exacerbation is resolved4. Teaching about the Atkins diet for weight loss5. Demonstration of the components of foot care6. Discussing the relationship between illness and glucose levels9. An unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) tells the nurse that while assistingwith the morning care of a postoperative patient with type 2 diabetes whohas been given insulin, the patient asked if she will always need to takeinsulin now. What is the RN's priority for teaching the patient?1. Explain to the patient that she is now considered to have type 1 diabetes.2. Tell the patient to monitor fingerstick glucose level every 4 hours afterdischarge.3. Teach the patient that a person with type 2 diabetes does not always needinsulin.4. Discuss the relationship between illness and increased glucose levels.10. An LPN/LVN is assigned to administer rapid-acting insulin, lispro, to apatient with type 1 diabetes. What essential information would the RN besure to tell the LPN/LVN?1. Give this insulin when the food tray has been delivered and the patient isready to eat.2562. Only give this insulin for fingerstick glucose reading is above 200 mg/dL(11.1 mmol/L).3. This insulin mimics the basal glucose control of the pancreas.4. Rapid-acting insulin is the only insulin that can be given subcutaneously orIV.11. In the care of a patient with type 2 diabetes, which actions should the nursedelegate to an unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)? Select all that apply.1. Providing the patient with extra packets of artificial sweetener for coffee2. Assessing how well the patient's shoes fit3. Recording the liquid intake from the patient's breakfast tray4. Teaching the patient what to do if dizziness or lightheadedness occurs5. Checking and recording the patient's blood pressure6. Assisting the patient to ambulate to the bathroom12. In the emergency department, during initial assessment of a newly admittedpatient with diabetes, the nurse discovers all of these findings. Which findingshould be reported to the health care provider immediately?1. Hammer toe of the left second metatarsophalangeal joint2. Rapid respiratory rate with deep inspirations3. Numbness and tingling bilaterally in the feet and hands4. Decreased sensitivity and swelling of the abdomen13. The nurse is caring for a patient with diabetes who is developing diabeticketoacidosis (DKA). Which task delegation or assignment is mostappropriate?1. Ask the unit clerk to page the health care provider to come to the unit.2. Ask the LPN/LVN to administer IV push insulin according to a slidingscale.3. Ask the unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) to hang a new bag of normalsaline.4. Ask the UAP to get the patient a cup (236 mL) of orange juice.14. The RN is serving as preceptor to a new graduate nurse who has recentlypassed the RN licensure (NCLEX®) examination. The new nurse has onlybeen on the unit for 2 days. Which patient should be assigned to the newgraduate nurse?1. A 68-year-old patient with diabetes who is showing signs of hyperglycemia2. A 58-year-old patient with diabetes who has cellulitis of the left ankle3. A 49-year-old patient with diabetes just returned from the postanesthesiacare unit after a below-knee amputation4. A 72-year-old patient with diabetes with diabetic ketoacidosis who isreceiving IV insulin15. A patient with diabetes has hot, dry skin; rapid and deep respirations; and a257fruity odor to his breath. The charge nurse observes a newly graduated RNperforming all the following patient tasks. Which action requires that thecharge nurse intervene immediately?1. Checking the patient's fingerstick glucose level2. Encouraging the patient to drink orange juice3. Checking the patient's order for sliding-scale insulin dosing4. Assessing the patient's vital signs every 15 minutes16. A patient has newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes. Which action should the RNassign to an LPN/LVN rather than an experienced unlicensed assistivepersonnel (UAP)?1. Measuring the patient's vital signs every shift2. Checking the patient's glucose level before each meal3. Administering subcutaneous insulin on a sliding scale as needed4. Assisting the patient with morning care17. A patient with type 1 diabetes reports feeling dizzy. What should the nursedo first?1. Check the patient's blood pressure.2. Give the patient some orange juice.3. Give the patient's morning dose of insulin.4. Use a glucometer to check the patient's glucose level.18. The nurse is responsible for the care of a patient with diabetes who is unableto swallow, is unconscious and seizing, and has a blood glucose of less than20 mg/dL (1.1 mmol/L). Which actions are most appropriate responses forthis patient at this time? Select all that apply.1. Check the chart for the patient's most recent A1c level.2. Give glucagon 1 mg subcutaneously or intramuscularly (IM).3. Repeat the dose of glucagon in 10 minutes if the patient remainsunconscious.4. Apply aspiration precautions because glucagon can cause vomiting.5. Give the patient an oral simple sugar or snack.6. Notify the health care provider (HCP) immediately.19. While working in the diabetes clinic, the RN obtains the followinginformation about an 8-year-old patient with type 1 diabetes. Which findingis most important to address when planning child and parent education?1. Most recent hemoglobin A1c level of 7.8%2. Many questions about diet choices from the parents3. Child's participation in soccer practice after school 2 days a week4. Morning preprandial glucose range of 55 to 70 mg/dL (3.1 to 3.9 mmol/L)20. Which actions can the school nurse delegate to an experienced unlicensed258assistive personnel (UAP) who is working with a 7-year-old child with type 1diabetes in an elementary school? Select all that apply.1. Obtaining information about the child's usual insulin use from the parents2. Administering oral glucose tablets when blood glucose level falls below60 mg/dL (3.3 mmol/L)3. Teaching the child about what foods have high carbohydrate levels4. Obtaining blood glucose readings using the child's blood glucose monitor5. Reminding the child to have a snack after the physical education class6. Assessing the child's knowledge level about his or her type 1 diabetes21. While the RN is performing an admission assessment on a patient with type2 diabetes, the patient states that he routinely drinks 3 beers a day. What isthe nurse's priority follow-up question at this time?1. “Do you have any days when you do not drink?”2. “When during the day do you drink your beers?”3. “Do you drink any other forms of alcohol?”4. “Have you ever had a lipid profile completed?”22. The unlicensed assistive personnel reports to the RN that a patient with type1 diabetes has a question about exercise. What important points would theRN be sure to teach this patient? Select all that apply.1. Exercise guidelines are based on blood glucose and urine ketone levels.2. Be sure to test your blood glucose only after exercising.3. You can exercise vigorously if your blood glucose is between 100 and250 mg/dL (5.6 and 13.9 mmol/L).4. Exercise will help resolve the presence of ketones in your urine.5. A 5- to 10-minute warm-up and cool-down period should be included inyour exercise.6. For unplanned exercise, increased intake of carbohydrates is usuallyneeded.23. The experienced unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) has been delegated totake vital signs and check fingerstick glucose on a postoperative patient withdiabetes. Which vital sign change would the RN instruct the UAP to reportimmediately?1. Blood pressure increase from 132/80 to 138/84 mm Hg2. Temperature increase from 98.4°F to 99°F (36.9°C to 37.2°C)3. Respiratory rate increase from 18 to 22 breaths/min4. Glucose increase from 190 to 236 mg/dL (10.6 to 13.1 mmol/L)24. The RN is the preceptor for a senior nursing student who will teach a patientwith diabetes about self-care during sick days. For which statement by thestudent must the RN intervene?1. “When you are sick, be sure to monitor your blood glucose at least every 4259hours.”2. “Test your urine for ketones whenever your blood glucose level is less than240 mg/dL (13.3 mmol/L).”3. “To prevent dehydration, drink 8 ounces (236 mL) of sugar-free liquidevery hour while you are awake.”4. “Continue to eat your meals and snacks at the usual times.”25. The nurse is caring for an 81-year-old adult with type 2 diabetes,hypertension, and peripheral vascular disease. Which admission assessmentfindings increase the patient's risk for development of hyperglycemichyperosmolarsyndrome (HHS)? Select all that apply.1. Hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) prescribed to control her blood pressure2. Weight gain of 6 lb (2.7 kg) over the past month3. Avoids consuming liquids in the evening4. Blood pressure of 168/94 mm Hg5. Urine output of 50 to 75 mL/hr6. Glucose greater than 600 mg/dL (33.3 mmol/L)26. The RN is orienting a new graduate nurse who is providing diabeteseducation for a patient about insulin injection. For which teaching statementby the new nurse must the RN intervene?1. “To prevent lipohypertrophy, be sure to rotate injection sites from theabdomen to the thighs.”2. “To correctly inject the insulin, lightly grasp a fold of skin and inject at a 90-degree angle.”3. “Always draw your regular insulin into the syringe first before your NPH(neutral protamine Hagedorn) insulin.”4. “Avoid injecting the insulin into scarred sites because those areas slow theabsorption rate of insulin.”27. The patient with type 2 diabetes has a health care provider prescription forNPO status for a cardiac catheterization. An LPN/LVN who is assigned toadminister medications to this patient asks the supervising RN whether thepatient should receive his ordered repaglinide. What is the RN's bestresponse?1. “Yes, because this drug will increase the patient's insulin secretion andprevent hyperglycemia.”2. “No, because this drug may cause the patient to experience gastrointestinalsymptoms such as nausea.”3. “No, because this drug should be given 1 to 30 minutes before meals andthe patient is NPO.”4. “Yes, because this drug should be taken three times a day whether thepatient eats or not.”28. The RN is caring for a patient with diabetes admitted with hypoglycemia260that occurred at home. Which teaching points for treatment of hypoglycemiaat home would the nurse include in a teaching plan for the patient and familybefore discharge? Select all that apply.1. Signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia include hunger, irritability,weakness, headache, and blood glucose less than 60 mg/dL (3.3 mmol/L).2. Treat hypoglycemia with 4 to 8 g of carbohydrate such as glucose tablets or¼ cup (60 mL) of fruit juice.3. Retest blood glucose in 30 minutes.4. Repeat the carbohydrate treatment if the symptoms do not resolve.5. Eat a small snack of carbohydrate and protein if the next meal is more thanan hour away.6. If the patient has severe hypoglycemia, does not respond to treatment, andis unconscious, transport to the emergency department (ED).29. The nurse is evaluating a patient with diabetes for foot risk category. Thepatient lacks protective sensation and shows evidence of peripheral vasculardisease. According to the American Diabetes Association (ADA), which footrisk category best fits this patient?1. Risk category 02. Risk category 13. Risk category 24. Risk category 330. The nurse is preparing a teaching plan for a patient with type 2 diabetes whohas been prescribed albiglutide. Which key points would the nurse include?Select all that apply.1. The drug works in the intestine in response to food intake and acts withinsulin for glucose regulation.2. This drug increases cellular utilization of glucose, which lowers bloodglucose levels.3. This drug is used with diet and exercise to improve glycemic control inadults with type 2 diabetes.4. The drug is an oral insulin that should be given only when the patient hassomething to eat immediately available.5. Albiglutide is administered by the subcutaneous route once a week.6. Albiglutide should be given with caution for a patient with a history ofpancreatic problems.31. The nurse is assessing a newly admitted older adult with diabetes.Assessment reveals abnormal appearance of the feet (see figure). The nurserecognizes this as which deformity?2612621. Claw toe deformity2. Hammer toe deformity3. Charcot foot deformity4. Hypertrophic ungula labium deformity263Answer Key1. Ans: 1 The older patient with diabetic retinopathy also has general agerelatedvision changes, and the ability to perform self-care may be seriouslyaffected. He or she may have blurred vision, distorted central vision,fluctuating vision, loss of color perception, and mobility problems resultingfrom loss of depth perception. When a patient has visual changes, it isespecially important to assess his or her ability to measure and inject insulinand to monitor blood glucose levels to determine if adaptive devices areneeded to assist in self-management. The other options are important but arenot specific to diabetic retinopathy. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 2 CAN affects sympathetic and parasympathetic nerves of the heart andblood vessels. It may lead to orthostatic (postural) hypotension and syncope(brief loss of consciousness on standing) caused by failure of the heart andarteries to respond to position changes by increasing heart rate and vasculartone. The nurse should be sure to instruct the UAP to have the patient changepositions slowly when moving from lying to sitting and standing. Focus:Supervision, Delegation.3. Ans: 3 The higher the blood glucose level is over time, the more glycosylatedthe hemoglobin becomes. The HgbA1c level is a good indicator of the averageblood glucose level over the previous 120 days. Fasting glucose and oralglucose tolerance tests are important diagnostic tools. Fingerstick bloodglucose monitoring provides information that allows adjustment of thepatient's therapeutic regimen. Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 4 The experienced UAP would have been taught to perform tasks suchas checking pulse oximetry and glucose checks, and these actions would bepart of his or her scope of practice. Arranging for a consult with the dietitianis appropriate for the unit clerk. Teaching and assessing require additionaleducation and should be carried out by licensed nurses. Focus: Delegation,Supervision, Assignment.5. Ans: 1, 2, 5, 6 Sensory alterations are the major cause of foot complications inpatient with diabetes, and patients should be taught to examine their feet on adaily basis. Properly fitted shoes protect the patient from foot complications.Broken skin increases the risk of infection. Cotton socks are recommended toabsorb moisture. Using a bath thermometer can prevent burn injuries.Patients, family, or HCPs may trim toenails. Focus: Prioritization; TestTaking Tip: When caring for patients with diabetes, the nurse must beknowledgeable about safety issues with the potential for injuries to thesepatients. A key nursing role is patient teaching regarding these concerns sopatients can perform protective interventions in the home to prevent injuries.6. Ans: 3 Profuse perspiration is a symptom of hypoglycemia, a complication ofdiabetes that requires urgent treatment. A glucose level of 185 mg/dL264(10.3 mmol/L) will need coverage with sliding-scale insulin, but this is noturgent. Numbness and tingling, as well as bunions, are related to the chronicnature of diabetes and are not urgent problems. Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 1 Reminding the patient to put on well-fitting shoes (after the nurse hastaught the patient about the importance of this action) is part of assisting withactivities of daily living and is within the education and scope of practice ofthe UAP. It is a safety measure that can prevent injury. Discussingcommunity resources, teaching, and assessing require a higher level ofeducation and are appropriate to the scope of practice of licensed nurses.Focus: Delegation.8. Ans: 1, 2, 5, 6 When a patient with diabetes is ill, glucose levels becomeelevated, and administration of insulin may be necessary. Administration ofsliding-scale insulin is guided by fingerstick blood glucose checks. Teachingor reviewing the components of proper foot care is always a good idea with apatient with diabetes. Bed rest is not necessary, and glucose levels may bebetter controlled when a patient is more active. The Atkins diet recommendsdecreasing the consumption of carbohydrates and is not a good diet forpatient with diabetes. Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 4 When a patient with diabetes is ill or has surgery, glucose levelsbecome elevated, and administration of insulin may be necessary. This is atemporary change that usually resolves with recovery from the illness orsurgery. Option 3 is correct but does not explain why the patient maycurrently need insulin. The patient does not have type 1 diabetes, andfingerstick glucose checks are usually prescribed for before meals and atbedtime. Focus: Prioritization.10. Ans: 1 The onset of action for rapid-acting insulin is within minutes, so itshould be given only when the patient has food and is ready to eat. Becauseof this, rapid-acting insulin is sometimes called “see food” insulin. Options 2,3, and 4 are incorrect with regard to rapid-acting insulin. Option 2 is incorrectwith regard to all forms of insulin. Long-acting insulins mimic the action ofthe pancreas. Regular insulin is the only insulin that can be given IV. Focus:Assignment, Supervision.11. Ans: 1, 3, 5, 6 Giving the patient extra sweetener, recording oral intake,assisting with ambulation, and checking blood pressure are all within thescope of practice of the UAP. Assessing shoe fit and patient teaching arewithin the professional nurse's scope of practice. Focus: Assignment.12. Ans: 2 Rapid, deep respirations (Kussmaul respirations) are symptomatic ofdiabetic ketoacidosis. Hammer toe, as well as numbness and tingling, arechronic complications associated with diabetes. Decreased sensitivity andswelling (lipohypertrophy) occur at a site of repeated insulin injections, andtreatment involves teaching the patient to rotate injection sites within oneanatomic site. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 1 The nurse should not leave the patient. The scope of the unit clerk's265job includes calling and paging physicians. LPNs/LVNs generally do notadminister IV push medication, although in some states with additionaltraining, this may be done. (Be sure to check the Scope of Practice in yourspecific state.) IV fluid administration is not within the scope of practice ofUAPs. Patients with DKA already have a high glucose level and do not needorange juice. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.14. Ans: 2 The new nurse is very early in orientation to the unit. Appropriatepatient assignments at this time include patients whose conditions are stableand not complex. Patients 1, 3, and 4 are more complex and will benefit fromcare by a nurse experienced in care of patients with diabetes. Focus:Assignment; Test Taking Tip: For nurses new to a unit, always assignpatients who are most stable and least complex.15. Ans: 2 The signs and symptoms the patient is exhibiting are consistent withhyperglycemia. The RN should not give the patient additional glucose. All ofthe other interventions are appropriate for this patient. The RN should alsonotify the health care provider at this time. Focus: Prioritization.16. Ans: 3 The UAP's scope of practice includes checking vital signs andassisting with morning care. Experienced UAPs with special training cancheck the patient's glucose level before meals and at bedtime. It is generallynot within the UAP's scope of practice to administer medications, but this iswithin the scope of practice of the LPN/LVN. Focus: Assignment.17. Ans: 4 Before orange juice or insulin is given, the patient's blood glucoselevel should be checked. Checking blood pressure is a good idea but is notthe first action the nurse should take. Focus: Prioritization.18. Ans: 2, 3, 4, 6 This patient's manifestations suggest severe hypoglycemia.Essential actions at this time include notifying the HCP immediately andgiving glucagon 1 mg subcutaneously or IM. Glucagon is the maincounterregulatory hormone to insulin and is used as first-line therapy forsevere hypoglycemia in patients with diabetes. The dose or glucagon isrepeated after 10 minutes if the patient remains unconscious. Aspirationprecautions are important because this drug can cause vomiting. Checkingthe patient's A1c level is not important at this time. Offering oral glucose or asnack when a patient is unable to swallow or unconscious is inappropriate.Focus: Prioritization.19. Ans: 4 The low morning fasting blood glucose level indicates possiblenocturnal hypoglycemia. Research indicates that it is important to avoidhypoglycemic episodes in pediatric patients because of the risk for permanentneurologic damage and adverse developmental outcomes. Although a lowerhemoglobin A1c might be desirable, the upper limit for hemoglobin A1c levelsranges from 7.5% to 8.5% in pediatric patients. The parents’ questions aboutdiet and the child's activity level should also be addressed, but the mosturgent consideration is education about the need to avoid hypoglycemia.Focus: Prioritization.26620. Ans: 2, 4, 5 National guidelines published by the American DiabetesAssociation (ADA) indicate that administration of emergency treatment forhypoglycemia (e.g., glucose tablets), obtaining blood glucose readings, andreminding children about content they have already been taught by licensedcaregivers are appropriate tasks for non–health care professional personnelsuch as teachers, paraprofessionals, and UAP. Assessments and educationrequire more specialized education and scope of practice and should be doneby the school nurse. Focus: Delegation.21. Ans: 2 Alcohol has the potential for causing alcohol-induced hypoglycemia.It is important to know when the patient drinks alcohol and to teach thepatient to ingest it shortly after meals to prevent this complication. The otherquestions are important but not urgent. The lipid profile question isimportant because alcohol can raise plasma triglycerides but is not as urgentas the potential for hypoglycemia. Focus: Prioritization.22. Ans: 1, 3, 5, 6 Guidelines for exercise are based on blood glucose and urineketone levels. Patients should test blood glucose before, during, and afterexercise to be sure that it is safe to exercise. When ketones are present inurine, the patient should not exercise because ketones indicate that currentinsulin levels are not adequate. Vigorous exercise is permitted in patientswith type 1 diabetes if glucose levels are between 100 and 250 mg/dL (5.6 and13.9 mmol/L). Warm-up and cool-down should be included in exercise togradually increase and decrease the heart rate. For planned exercise,reduction in insulin dosage is used for hypoglycemia prevention. Forunplanned exercise, intake of additional carbohydrate is usually needed.Focus: Prioritization.23. Ans: 4 An unexpected rise in blood glucose is associated with increasedmortality and morbidity after surgical procedures. American DiabetesAssociation guidelines recommend insulin protocols to maintain bloodglucose levels between 140 and 180 mg/dL (7.8 and 10 mmol/L). Also,unexpected rises in blood glucose values may indicate wound infection.Focus: Delegation, Supervision, Prioritization.24. Ans: 2 Urine ketone testing should be done whenever the patient's bloodglucose is greater than 240 mg/dL (13.3 mmol/L). All of the other teachingpoints are appropriate “sick day rules.” For dehydration, teaching shouldalso include that if the patient's blood glucose is lower than her target range,she should drink fluids containing sugar. Focus: Supervision, Delegation.25. Ans: 1, 3, 6 HHS often occurs in older adults with type 2 diabetes. Riskfactors include taking diuretics and inadequate fluid intake. Serum glucose isgreater than 600 mg/dL (33.3 mmol/L). Weight loss (not weight gain) wouldbe a symptom. Although the patient's blood pressure is high, this is not a riskfactor. A urine output of 50 to 75 mL/hr is adequate. Focus: Prioritization.26. Ans: 1 Although it is important to rotate injection sites for insulin, it ispreferred that the injection sites be rotated within one anatomic site (e.g., the267abdomen) to prevent day-to-day changes in the absorption rate of the insulin.All of the other teaching points are appropriate. Focus: Supervision,Prioritization.27. Ans: 3 Repaglinide is a meglitinide analog drug. These drugs are shortactingagents used to prevent postmeal blood glucose elevation. They shouldbe given within 1 to 30 minutes before meals and cause hypoglycemia shortlyafter dosing when a meal is delayed or omitted. Focus: Supervision,Assignment, Prioritization.28. Ans: 1, 4, 5, 6 The manifestations listed in option 1 are correct. Thesymptoms should be treated with carbohydrate, but 10 to 15 g (not 4 to 8 g).Glucose should be retested at 15 minutes; 30 minutes is too long to wait.Options 4 and 5 are correct. When a patient has severe hypoglycemia, doesnot respond to administration of glucagon, and remains unconscious, he orshe should be transported to the ED and the health care provider notified.Focus: Prioritization.29. Ans: 3 The ADA's foot risk categories are category 0 (has protectivesensation, has no evidence of peripheral vascular disease, has no evidence offoot deformity), category 1 (does not have protective sensation; may haveevidence of foot deformity), category 2 (does not have protective sensation;has evidence of peripheral vascular disease), and category 3 (has history ofulcer or amputation). Focus: Prioritization.30. Ans: 1, 3, 5 Albiglutide is an incretin mimetic. These drugs work like thenatural “gut” hormones, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and glucosedependentinsulinotropic polypeptide (GIP), that are released by the intestinein response to food intake and act with insulin for glucose regulation. Theyare used in addition to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control inadults with type 2 diabetes. Albiglutide is administered subcutaneously oncea week. Focus: Prioritization.31. Ans: 3 Charcot foot is a diabetic foot deformity. The foot is warm, swollen,and painful. Walking collapses the arch, shortens the foot, and gives the soleof the foot a “rocker bottom” shape. Focus: Prioritization.268C H A P T E R 1 4269Other Endocrine Problems270Questions1. The nurse is caring for a 25-year-old patient admitted to the acute care unitwith an extra strong thirst, and dilute, excessive straw-colored urine output(up to 15 L/day). What does the nurse suspect?1. Type 2 diabetes2. Diabetes insipidus (DI)3. Cushing disease4. Addison disease2. The nurse is providing care for a male patient with hypogonadotropin who isreceiving sex steroid replacement therapy with testosterone. Which changesindicate to the nurse that therapy is successful? Select all that apply.1. Decreased facial hair2. Increased libido3. Decreased bone size4. Increased muscle mass5. Increased axillary hair growth6. Increased breast tissue3. A patient is admitted to the medical unit with possible Graves disease(hyperthyroidism). Which assessment finding by the nurse supports thisdiagnosis?1. Periorbital edema2. Bradycardia3. Exophthalmos4. Hoarse voice4. Which change in vital signs would the nurse instruct the unlicensed assistivepersonnel to report immediately for a patient with hyperthyroidism?1. Rapid heart rate2. Decreased systolic blood pressure3. Increased respiratory rate4. Decreased oral temperature5. For a patient with hyperthyroidism, which task should the nurse delegate toan experienced unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Instructing the patient to report any occurrence of palpitations, dyspnea,vertigo, or chest pain2. Monitoring the apical pulse, blood pressure, and temperature every 4 hours3. Drawing blood to measure levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone,triiodothyronine, and thyroxine2714. Teaching the patient about side effects of the drug propylthiouracil6. As the shift begins, the nurse is assigned to care for the following patients.Which patient should the nurse assess first?1. A 38-year-old patient with Graves disease and a heart rate of 94 beats/min2. A 63-year-old patient with type 2 diabetes and fingerstick glucose level of137 mg/dL (7.6 mmol/L)3. A 58-year-old patient with hypothyroidism and a heart rate of 48 beats/min4. A 49-year-old patient with Cushing disease and dependent edema rated as+ 17. A patient is hospitalized with adrenocortical insufficiency. Which nursingactivity should the nurse delegate to unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Reminding the patient to change positions slowly2. Assessing the patient for muscle weakness3. Teaching the patient how to collect a 24-hour urine sample4. Revising the patient's nursing plan of care8. Assessment findings for a patient with Cushing disease include all of thefollowing. For which finding would the nurse notify the health care provider(HCP) immediately?1. Purple striae present on the abdomen and thighs2. Weight gain of 1 lb (0.5 kg) since the previous day3. Dependent edema rated as + 1 in the ankles and calves4. Crackles bilaterally in the lower lobes of the lungs9. The nurse is preparing to discharge a patient with hyperpituitarism caused bya benign pituitary tumor, who is prescribed the drug bromocriptine. Whichkey points would the nurse teach the patient about this drug? Select all thatapply.1. Take this drug with a meal or snack to avoid gastrointestinal (GI)symptoms.2. Side effects of bromocriptine include severe fatigue and reflux after meals.3. Seek medical care if you experience chest pain or dizziness while takingthis drug.4. If the drug causes headaches, you can take over-the-counteracetaminophen.5. Treatment starts with a high dose, which is gradually lowered.6. The purpose of bromocriptine is to shrink your pituitary to normal size.10. A patient with pheochromocytoma underwent surgery to remove hisadrenal glands. Which nursing intervention should the nurse delegate to anunlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Revising the nursing care plan to include strategies to provide a calm andrestful environment postoperatively2722. Instructing the patient to avoid smoking and drinking caffeine-containingbeverages3. Assessing the patient's skin and mucous membranes for signs of adequatehydration4. Monitoring lying and standing blood pressure every 4 hours with a cuffplaced on the same arm11. The LPN/LVN is assigned to provide care for a patient withpheochromocytoma. Which physical assessment technique should the RNinstruct the LPN/LVN to avoid?1. Listening for abdominal bowel sounds in all four quadrants2. Palpating the abdomen in all four quadrants3. Checking the blood pressure every hour4. Assessing the mucous membranes for hydration status12. A patient with adrenal insufficiency is to be discharged and will takeprednisone 10 mg orally each day. Which instruction would the nurse be sureto teach the patient?1. Excessive weight gain or swelling should be reported to the health careprovider.2. Changing positions rapidly may cause hypotension and dizziness.3. A diet with foods low in sodium may be beneficial to prevent side effects.4. Signs of hypoglycemia may occur while taking this drug.13. The nurse is caring for a patient who has just undergone hypophysectomyfor hyperpituitarism. Which postoperative finding requires immediateintervention?1. Presence of glucose in the nasal drainage2. Presence of nasal packing in the nares3. Urine output of 40 to 50 mL/hr4. Patient reports of thirst14. Which patient should the charge nurse assign to the care of an LPN/LVN,under the supervision of the RN team leader?1. A 51-year-old patient who has just undergone bilateral adrenalectomy2. A 83-year-old patient with type 2 diabetes and chronic obstructivepulmonary disease3. A 38-year-old patient with myocardial infarction preparing for discharge4. A 72-year-old patient with mental status changes admitted from a longtermcare facility15. The nurse is providing care for a patient who underwent thyroidectomy 2days ago. Which laboratory value requires close monitoring by the nurse?1. Calcium level2. Sodium level2733. Potassium level4. White blood cell count16. A 24-year-old patient with diabetes insipidus makes all of these statementswhen the nurse is preparing the patient for discharge from the hospital.Which statement indicates to the nurse that the patient needs additionalteaching?1. “I will drink fluids equal to the amount of my urine output.”2. “I will weigh myself every day using the same scale.”3. “I will wear my medical alert bracelet at all times.”4. “I will gradually wean myself off the vasopressin.”17. The RN is supervising a senior student nurse who is caring for a freshpostoperative patient who had a hypophysectomy. The RN observes thestudent nurse perform all of these actions. For which action must the RNintervene?1. Assess for changes in vision or mental status.2. Keep the head of the bed elevated.3. Remind the patient to perform deep breathing every hour while awake.4. Encourage the patient to cough vigorously.18. The nurse is caring for a patient with syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretichormone secretion (SIADH). Which patient care actions should the nursedelegate to the experienced unlicensed assistive personnel? Select all thatapply.1. Monitor and record strict intake and output.2. Provide the patient with ice chips when requested.3. Remind the patient about his or her fluid restriction.4. Weigh the patient every morning using the same scale.5. Report a weight gain of 2.2 lb (1 kg) to the nurse.6. Provide mouth care allowing the patient to swallow the rinses.19. The nurse is preparing a care plan for a patient with Cushing disease. Whichabnormal laboratory values would the nurse expect? Select all that apply.1. Increased serum calcium level2. Increased salivary cortisol level3. Increased urinary cortisol level4. Decreased serum glucose level5. Decreased sodium level6. Increased serum cortisol level20. When providing care for a patient with Addison disease, the nurse shouldbe alert for which laboratory value change?1. Decreased hematocrit2742. Increased sodium level3. Decreased potassium level4. Decreased calcium level21. A female patient is admitted with a diagnosis of primary hypofunction ofthe adrenal glands. Which nursing assessment finding supports thisdiagnosis?1. Patchy areas of pigment loss over the face2. Decreased muscle strength3. Greatly increased urine output4. Scalp alopecia22. The nurse is instructing a senior nursing student on the techniques forpalpation of the thyroid gland. What precaution would the nurse be sure toinclude when instructing the student about thyroid palpation?1. Always stand to the side of the patient.2. Instruct the patient not to swallow.3. Palpate using one hand and then the other.4. Always palpate the thyroid gland gently.23. Two unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) are assisting a patient withCushing disease to move up in bed. Which action by the UAPs requires thenurse's immediate intervention?1. Positioning themselves on opposite sides of the patient's bed2. Grasping under the patient's arms to pull him up in bed3. Lowering the side rails of the patient's bed before moving him4. Removing the pillow before moving the patient up in bed24. The nurse is caring for the following patients with endocrine disorders.Which patient must the nurse assess first?1. A 21-year-old patient with diabetes insipidus whose urine output overnightwas 2000 mL2. A 55-year-old patient with syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretichormone secretion (SIADH) who is demanding that the unlicensedassistive personnel refill his water pitcher3. A 65-year-old patient with Addison disease whose morning potassiumlevel is 6.2 mEq/L (6.2 mmol/L)4. A 48-year-old patient with Cushing disease with a weight gain of 1.5 lb(0.7 kg) over the past 4 days25. Which actions prescribed by the health care provider for the patient withAddison disease should the nurse delegate to the experienced unlicensedassistive personnel (UAP)? Select all that apply.1. Weigh the patient every morning.2. Obtain fingerstick glucose before each meal and at bedtime.2753. Check vital signs every 2 hours.4. Monitor for cardiac dysrhythmias.5. Administer oral prednisone 10 mg every morning.6. Record intake and output.26. The LPN/LVN who is assigned to care for a patient with Cushing diseaseasks the RN why the patient has bruising and petechiae across her abdomen.What is the RN's best response?1. “Patients with Cushing disease often have bleeding disorders.”2. “Patients with Cushing disease have very fragile capillaries.”3. “Please ask the patient if she slipped or fell during the night.”4. “Thin and delicate skin can result in development of bruising.”27. The patient with hyperparathyroidism who is not a candidate for surgeryasks the nurse why she is receiving IV normal saline and IV furosemide.What is the nurse's best response?1. “This therapy is to protect your kidney function.”2. “You are receiving these therapies to prevent edema formation.”3. “Diuretic and hydration therapies are used to reduce your serum calcium.”4. “These therapies may help to improve your candidacy for surgery.”28. Which actions should the nurse assign to the experienced LPN/LVN for thecare of a patient with hypothyroidism? Select all that apply.1. Assessing and recording the rate and depth of respirations2. Auscultating lung sounds every 4 hours3. Creating an individualized nursing care plan for the patient4. Administering sedation medications every 6 hours5. Checking blood pressure, heart rate, and respirations every 4 hours6. Reminding the patient to report any episodes of chest pain or discomfort29. The nurse is caring for a patient with hyperthyroidism who had a partialthyroidectomy yesterday. Which change in assessment would the nursereport to the health care provider immediately?1. Temperature elevation to 100.2°F (37.9°C)2. Heart rate increase from 64 to 76 beats/min3. Respiratory rate decrease from 26 to 16 breaths/min4. Pulse oximetry reading of 92%30. The nurse admits a patient whose assessment reveals prominent brow ridge,large hands and feet, and large lips and nose. Which pituitary hormone doesthe nurse suspect is elevated?1. Thyroid-stimulating hormone2. Growth hormone3. Adrenocorticotropic hormone2764. Vasopressin antidiuretic hormone31. The nurse is orienting a new graduate RN who is providing care for apostoperative patient after a thyroidectomy. The new graduate assesses thepatient and notes laryngeal stridor with a pulse oximetry measure of 89%.What is the priority action for the nurse and new graduate?1. Immediately notify the Rapid Response Team (RRT).2. Apply oxygen by face mask.3. Prepare to suction the patient.4. Assess for numbness and tingling around the mouth.32. Which prescribed order for a patient with diabetes insipidus (DI) would thenurse be sure to question?1. Monitor and record accurate intake and output.2. Check urine specific gravity.3. Restrict fluids for 6 hours.4. Weigh the patient every morning.33. The nurse assesses a newly admitted patient with a diagnosis ofhyperthyroidism (see figure). How would the nurse best document thefinding in this patient?2771. Bilateral exophthalmos2. Large visible goiter3. Myxedema4. Moon face278Answer Key1. Ans: 2 DI is a disorder of the posterior pituitary gland in which water loss iscaused by either an antidiuretic hormone (ADH) deficiency or an inability ofthe kidneys to respond to ADH. The result of DI is the excretion of largevolumes of dilute urine because the distal kidney tubules and collecting ductsdo not reabsorb water; this leads to polyuria. Dehydration from massivewater loss increases plasma osmolarity, which stimulates the sensation ofthirst. Thirst promotes increased fluid intake and aids in maintaininghydration. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 2, 4, 5 Therapy for gonadotropin deficiency begins with high-dosetestosterone and is continued until virilization (presence of male secondarysex characteristics) is achieved, with responses that include increases in penissize, libido, muscle mass, bone size, and bone strength. Chest, facial, pubic,and axillary hair growth also increase. Patients usually report improved bodyimage after therapy is initiated. Side effects of therapy include gynecomastia(male breast tissue development), acne, baldness, and prostate enlargement.Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 3 Exophthalmos (abnormal protrusion of the eyes) is characteristic ofpatients with hyperthyroidism caused by Graves disease. Periorbital edema,bradycardia, and a hoarse voice are all characteristics of patients withhypothyroidism. Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 1 The cardiac problems associated with hyperthyroidism includetachycardia, increased systolic blood pressure, and decreased diastolic bloodpressure. Patients with hyperthyroidism also may have increased bodytemperature related to increased metabolic rate. Respiratory changes areusually not symptomatic of this condition. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.5. Ans: 2 Monitoring vital signs and recording their values are within theeducation and scope of practice of UAPs. An experienced UAP should havebeen taught how to monitor the apical pulse. However, a nurse shouldobserve the UAP to be sure that the UAP has mastered this skill. Instructingand teaching patients, as well as performing venipuncture to obtainlaboratory samples, are more suited to the education and scope of practice oflicensed nurses. In some facilities, an experienced UAP may performvenipuncture, but only after special training. Focus: Delegation, Supervision,Assignment.6. Ans: 3 Although patients with hypothyroidism often have cardiac problemsthat include bradycardia, a heart rate of 48 beats/min may have significantimplications for cardiac output and hemodynamic stability. Patients withGraves disease usually have a rapid heart rate, but 94 beats/min is withinnormal limits. The patient with diabetes may need sliding-scale insulindosing. This is important but not urgent. Patients with Cushing disease279frequently have dependent edema. Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 1 Patients with hypofunction of the adrenal gland often havehypotension and should be instructed to change positions slowly. After apatient has been so instructed, it is appropriate for the UAP to remind thepatient of the instructions. Assessing, teaching, and planning nursing carerequire more education and should be done by licensed nurses. Focus:Delegation, Supervision.8. Ans: 4 The presence of crackles in the patient's lungs indicates excess fluidvolume caused by excess water and sodium reabsorption and may be asymptom of pulmonary edema, which must be treated rapidly. Striae (stretchmarks), weight gain, and dependent edema are common findings in patientswith Cushing disease. These findings should be monitored but do not requireurgent action. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Findings that the nurseshould immediately report to the HCP are those that can indicate aworsening of the patient's condition that must be treated to prevent furtherworsening or threat to life.9. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 6 Bromocriptine is a dopamine agonist drug that stimulatesdopamine receptors in the brain and inhibits the release of growth hormoneand prolactin. In most cases, small tumors decrease until the pituitary glandis of normal size. Side effects of bromocriptine include orthostatic (postural)hypotension, headaches, nausea, abdominal cramps, and constipation. Givebromocriptine with a meal or a snack to reduce GI side effects. Treatmentstarts with a low dose and is gradually increased until the desired level isreached. Patients taking bromocriptine should be taught to seek medical careimmediately if chest pain, dizziness, or watery nasal discharge occursbecause of the possibility of serious side effects, including cardiacdysrhythmias, coronary artery spasms, and cerebrospinal fluid leakage. Also,if the patient is a female of childbearing age who becomes pregnant, the drugshould be stopped. Focus: Prioritization.10. Ans: 4 Monitoring vital signs is within the education and scope of practicefor UAPs. The nurse should be sure to instruct the UAP that blood pressuremeasurements are to be taken with the cuff on the same arm each time andinstructed to record and inform the RN of the results. Revising the care planand instructing and assessing patients are beyond the scope of UAPs and fallwithin the purview of licensed nurses. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.11. Ans: 2 Palpating the abdomen can cause the sudden release ofcatecholamines and severe hypertension. All of the other assessments areappropriate for the LPN/LVN assigned to care for this patient. Focus:Assignment, Supervision.12. Ans: 1 Rapid weight gain and edema are signs of excessive drug therapy,and the dosage of the drug would need to be adjusted. Hypertension,hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, and hyperglycemia are common in patientswith adrenal hypofunction. Focus: Prioritization.28013. Ans: 1 The presence of glucose in nasal drainage indicates that the fluid iscerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and suggests a CSF leak. Packing is normallyinserted in the nares after the surgical incision is closed. Urine output of 40 to50 mL/hr is adequate, and patients may experience thirst postoperatively.When patients are thirsty, nursing staff should encourage fluid intake. Focus:Prioritization.14. Ans: 2 The 83-year-old has no complicating factors at the moment. Providingcare for patients in stable and uncomplicated condition falls within theLPN/LVN's educational preparation and scope of practice, with the carealways being provided under the supervision and direction of an RN. TheRN should assess the patient who has just undergone surgery and the newlyadmitted patient. The patient who is preparing for discharge after myocardialinfarction may need some complex teaching. Focus: Assignment,Supervision.15. Ans: 1 The parathyroid glands are located on the back of the thyroid gland.The parathyroids are important in maintaining calcium and phosphorusbalance. The nurse should be attentive to all patient laboratory values, butcalcium and phosphorus levels are especially important to monitor afterthyroidectomy because abnormal values could be the result of removal of theparathyroid glands during the procedure. Focus: Prioritization.16. Ans: 4 A patient with permanent diabetes insipidus requires lifelongvasopressin therapy. All of the other statements are appropriate to the homecare of this patient. Focus: Prioritization.17. Ans: 4 After hypophysectomy, the nurse should monitor the patient'sneurologic response and document any changes in vision or mental status,altered level of consciousness, or decreased strength of the extremities. Thehead of the bed should be kept elevated. Patients should be reminded toperform deep-breathing exercises hourly while awake to prevent pulmonaryproblems. However, the patient should be taught to avoid coughing earlyafter surgery because it increases pressure in the incision area and may leadto a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leak. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.18. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 5 Fluid restriction is essential because fluid intake further dilutesplasma sodium levels. In some cases, fluid intake may be kept as low as 500to 1000 mL over 24 hours. All oral fluids count, including ice chips andmouth rinses, and strict intake and output is required. Measure intake,output, and daily weights to assess the degree of fluid restriction needed. Aweight gain of 2.2 lb (1 kg) or more per day or a gradual increase over severaldays is cause for concern. A 2.2-lb (1 kg) weight increase is equal to a 1000-mL fluid retention (1 kg = 1 L). Keep the mouth moist by offering frequentoral rinsing (warn patients not to swallow the rinses). Focus: Delegation,Supervision.19. Ans: 2, 3, 6 A patient with Cushing disease experiences increased levels ofserum, urinary, and salivary cortisol. Other laboratory findings may include281increased blood glucose level, decreased lymphocyte count, increasedsodium level, and decreased serum calcium level. Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 1 A patient with Addison disease is at risk for anemia. The nurseshould expect this patient's sodium level to decrease and potassium andcalcium levels to increase. Focus: Prioritization.21. Ans: 1 Vitiligo, or patchy areas of pigment loss with increased pigmentationat the edges, is seen with primary hypofunction of the adrenal glands and iscaused by autoimmune destruction of melanocytes in the skin. The otherfindings are signs of pituitary hypofunction. Focus: Prioritization.22. Ans: 4 The thyroid gland should always be palpated gently becausevigorous palpation can stimulate a thyroid storm in a patient who may havehyperthyroidism. The student nurse should stand either behind or in front ofthe patient and use both hands to palpate the thyroid. Having the patientswallow can help with locating the thyroid gland. Focus: Supervision,Delegation.23. Ans: 2 Patients with Cushing disease usually have paper-thin skin that iseasily injured. The UAPs should use a lift or a draw sheet to carefully movethe patient and prevent injury to the skin. All of the other actions areappropriate to moving this patient up in bed. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.24. Ans: 3 This patient's potassium level is very high, placing the patient at riskfor cardiac dysrhythmias that could be life threatening. The other patientsalso need to be seen but are not as urgent. Focus: Prioritization.25. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 6 Weighing patients, recording intake and output, and checkingvital signs are all within the scope of practice for a UAP. An experienced UAPwould have been trained to perform fingerstick glucose monitoring. Thenurse should make sure that the UAP has mastered this skill and theninstruct the UAP to record and inform him or her about the results.Administering medications and monitoring for cardiac dysrhythmias arewithin the scope of practice of licensed nurses. Focus: Delegation.26. Ans: 2 A key cardiovascular feature seen in patients with Cushing disease iscapillary fragility, which results in bruising and petechiae. Bleeding disordersare not a sign of Cushing disease, and although these patients have delicateskin, this is not the cause of the bruising. The nurse may want to investigatewhether the patient fell, but these patients have bruising and petechiaewithout falls. Focus: Assignment, Supervision, Prioritization.27. Ans: 3 Diuretics and hydration help reduce serum calcium for patients withhyperparathyroidism who are not surgery candidates. Furosemide increaseskidney excretion of calcium when combined with IV saline in large volumes.Focus: Prioritization.28. Ans: 1, 2, 5, 6 Assessment, auscultation, and reminding patients aboutinformation that has been taught to them are within the scope of practice ofthe LPN/LVN. The LPN/LVN could be assigned to check the patient's vital282signs, and this is certainly within the scope of practice. Checking vital signscould also be delegated to the unlicensed assistive personnel. Creatingnursing care plans falls within the scope of practice of the RN. The use ofsedation is discouraged for patients with hypothyroidism because it maymake respiratory problems more difficult. If sedation is used, the dosage isreduced, and it is not given around the clock. Focus: Assignment,Supervision.29. Ans: 1 When caring for a patient with hyperthyroidism, even after a partialthyroidectomy, a temperature elevation of 1°F must be reported immediatelybecause it may indicate an impending thyroid crisis. The other changesshould be monitored, but none is urgent. Focus: Prioritization.30. Ans: 2 These assessment findings are classical initial manifestations forgrowth hormone excess. Focus: Prioritization.31. Ans: 1 The first priority is to monitor the patient after surgery to identifysymptoms of obstruction (stridor, dyspnea, falling oxygen saturation,inability to swallow, drooling) after thyroid surgery. If any are present,respond by immediately notifying the RRT. If the airway is obstructed,oxygen therapy will not be helpful, and the patient may need airwaymanagement such as intubation. For this reason, the RRT needs to beactivated first. Emergency tracheostomy equipment, oxygen, and suctioningequipment should already be in the patient's room and have been checked tobe sure that it is in working order. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip:This is a life-threatening situation, so the nurse's priority is to notify the RRTand health care provider immediately to safeguard the patient's life.32. Ans: 3 Ensure that no patient suspected of having DI is deprived of fluidsfor more than 4 hours because reduced urine output and severe dehydrationcan result. Interventions for DI include accurately measuring fluid intake andoutput, checking urine specific gravity, and recording the patient's weightdaily. Focus: Prioritization.33. Ans: 2 A patient with hyperthyroidism may have an enlarged thyroid gland(goiter) that can be 4 times the size of a normal gland. Exophthalmos refers towide-eyed, startled look resulting from edema in the extraocular muscledand increased fatty tissue behind the eye that pushes the eye forward.Myxedema occurs often in patients with hypothyroidism, and moon face is acommon characteristic of Cushing disease. Focus: Prioritization.283C H A P T E R 1 5284Integumentary Problems285Questions1. Which actions will the nurse use when treating a client with a venous ulcer onthe right lower leg? Select all that apply.1. Position the right leg lower than the heart.2. Use compression wraps consistently.3. Administer analgesics before wound care.4. Maintain a dry wound environment.5. Encourage right ankle flexion exercises.6. Clean wound with a nonirritating solution.2. After the nurse has performed a skin assessment on a recently admitted 19-year-old client, which finding is the highest priority to report to the healthcare provider?1. Mole 2 mm in diameter on the chest2. Tenting of the skin on the forearms3. Patches of vitiligo around both eyes4. Scattered brown macules on the face3. The home health nurse is caring for a client with a fungal infection of thetoenails who has a new prescription for oral itraconazole. Which clientinformation is most important to discuss with the health care provider (HCP)before administration of the itraconazole?1. The client's toenails are thick and yellow.2. The client is embarrassed by the infection.3. The client is also taking simvastatin daily.4. The client is allergic to iodine and shellfish.4. The health care provider (HCP) prescribes permethrin application for allfamily members of a client who has scabies. Which client information will bemost important for the nurse to discuss with the HCP before client teachingabout the medication?1. The client has a newborn infant.2. Burrows are noted on the wrists.3. The client and family are homeless.4. Family members are asymptomatic.5. The nurse is caring for a client who has just had a squamous cell carcinomaremoved from the face. Which action can be assigned to an experiencedLPN/LVN?1. Teaching the client about risk factors for squamous cell carcinoma2. Showing the client how to care for the surgical site at home2863. Monitoring the surgical site for swelling, bleeding, or pain4. Discussing the reasons for avoiding aspirin use for 1 week after surgery6. The charge nurse in a long-term care (LTC) facility that employs RNs,LPNs/LVNs, and unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) is planning care for aresident with a stage III sacral pressure ulcer. Which nursing intervention isbest to assign to an LPN/LVN?1. Choosing the type of dressing to be used on the ulcer2. Using the Braden scale to assess for pressure ulcer risk factors3. Assisting the client in changing position at frequent intervals4. Cleaning and changing the dressing on the ulcer every morning7. The nurse has just received a change-of-shift report for the burn unit. Whichclient should be assessed first?1. Client with deep partial-thickness burns on both legs who reports severeand continuous leg pain2. Client who has just arrived from the emergency department with facialburns sustained in a house fire3. Client who has just been transferred from the postanesthesia care unit afterhaving skin grafts applied to the anterior chest4. Client admitted 3 weeks ago with full-thickness leg and buttock burns whohas been waiting for 3 hours to receive discharge teaching8. The nurse is performing a sterile dressing change for a client with infecteddeep partial-thickness burns of the chest and abdomen. List the steps in theorder in which each should be accomplished.1. Apply silver sulfadiazine ointment.2. Obtain specimens for aerobic and anaerobic wound cultures.3. Administer morphine sulfate 10 mg IV.4. Débride the wound of eschar using gauze sponges.5. Cover the wound with a sterile gauze dressing._____, _____, _____, _____, _____9. Which client is best for the nurse manager on the burn unit to assign to an RNwho has floated from the oncology unit?1. A 23-year-old client who has just been admitted with burns over 30% of thebody after a warehouse fire2. A 36-year-old client who requires discharge teaching about nutrition andwound care after having skin grafts3. A 45-year-old client with infected partial-thickness back and chest burnswho has a dressing change scheduled4. A 57-year-old client with full-thickness burns on both arms who needsassistance in positioning hand splints10. After the nurse performs a skin assessment on a 70-year-old new resident in287a long-term care facility, which finding is of most concern?1. Numerous striae are noted across the abdomen and buttocks.2. All the toenails are thickened and yellow.3. Silver scaling is present on the elbows and knees.4. An irregular border is seen on a black mole on the scalp.11. Which assessment finding calls for the most immediate action by the nurse?1. Bluish color around the lips and earlobes2. Yellow color of the skin and sclera3. Bilateral erythema of the face and neck4. Dark brown spotting on the chest and back12. The nurse obtains this information about a 60-year-old client who has ashingles infection. Which finding is of most concern?1. The client has had symptoms for about 2 days.2. The client has severe burning-type discomfort.3. The client has not had the herpes zoster vaccination.4. The client's spouse is currently receiving cancer chemotherapy.13. Which of these actions will the nurse take first for a client who has arrived inthe emergency department with sudden-onset urticaria and intense itching?1. Ask the client about any new medications.2. Administer the prescribed cetirizine.3. Apply topical corticosteroid cream.4. Auscultate the client's breath sounds.14. A 22-year-old woman who has been taking isotretinoin to treat severe cysticacne makes all these statements while being seen for a follow-upexamination. Which statement is of most concern?1. “My husband and I are thinking of starting a family soon.”2. “I don’t think there has been much improvement in my skin.”3. “Sometimes I get nauseated after taking the medication.”4. “I have been experiencing a lot of muscle aches and pains.”15. A client is scheduled for patch testing to determine allergies to severalsubstances. Which action associated with this test should the nurse delegateto unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) working in the allergy clinic?1. Explaining the purpose of the testing to the client2. Examining the patch area for evidence of a reaction3. Scheduling a follow-up appointment for the client in 2 days4. Monitoring the client for anaphylactic reactions to the testing16. The nurse is planning hospital discharge teaching for four clients. For whichclient is it most important to instruct about the need to use sunscreen?2881. A 32-year-old client with pneumonia who has a new prescription fordoxycycline2. A fair-skinned 55-year-old client with psoriasis who works outside for 8hours daily3. A dark-skinned 62-year-old client who has had keloids injected withhydrocortisone4. A 78-year-old client with a red, pruritic rash caused by an allergic reactionto penicillin17. The home health nurse is caring for a 72-year-old client who has a stage IIpressure ulcer, with risk factors of poor nutrition, bladder incontinence, andimmobility. Which nursing action should be delegated to the unlicensedassistive personnel (UAP)?1. Telling the client and family to apply the skin barrier cream in a smooth,even layer2. Completing a diet assessment and suggesting changes in diet to improvethe client's nutrition3. Reminding the family to help the client to the commode every 2 hoursduring the day4. Evaluating the client for improvement in documented areas of skinbreakdown or damage18. The charge nurse in a long-term care facility that employs RNs, LPNs/LVNs,and unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) as staff members is planning thecare for an 80-year-old client who has candidiasis in the skinfolds of theabdomen and groin. Which intervention is best to assign to an LPN/LVN?1. Applying nystatin powder to the area three times daily2. Cleaning the skinfolds every 8 hours and drying thoroughly3. Evaluating the need for further antifungal treatment at least weekly4. Assessing for ongoing risk factors for skin breakdown and infection19. After reviewing the medical record for a client who has an oral herpessimplex infection after being treated with chemotherapy, which interventionhas the highest priority?1. Offer reassurance that herpes can be treated with antiviral medication.2. Administer prescribed analgesics before meals.3. Offer the client frequent small meals and snacks.4. Encourage the client to maintain contact with some family members.20. A client admitted to the emergency department reports new-onset itching ofthe trunk and groin. The nurse notes multiple reddened wheals on the chest,289back, and groin. Which question should the nurse ask next?1. “Do you have a family history of eczema?”2. “Have you been using sunscreen regularly?”3. “How do you usually manage stress?”4. “Are you taking any new medications?”21. A client who has extensive blister injuries to the back and both legs causedby exposure to toxic chemicals at work is transferred to the emergencydepartment. Which prescribed intervention will the nurse implement first?1. Infuse lactated Ringer's solution at 250 mL/hr.2. Rinse the back and legs with 4 L of sterile normal saline.3. Obtain blood for a complete blood count and electrolyte levels.4. Document the percentage of total body surface area burned.22. The nurse has just received the change-of-shift report in the burn unit.Which client requires the most immediate assessment or intervention?1. A 22-year-old client admitted 4 days previously with facial burns due to ahouse fire who has been crying since recent visitors left2. A 34-year-old client who returned from skin-graft surgery 3 hours ago andis reporting level 8 pain (on a scale of 0 to 10)3. A 45-year-old client with partial-thickness leg burns who has a temperatureof 102.6°F (39.2°C) and a blood pressure of 98/46 mm Hg4. A 57-year-old client who was admitted with electrical burns 24 hours agoand has a blood potassium level of 5.1 mEq/L (5.1 mmol/L)23. A client with cellulitis is to receive linezolid 600 mg IV over 2 hours. Basedon the medication label, the nurse will set the infusion pump for____________mL/hr.29024. In which order will the nurse take these actions which are needed for a clientseen in the family medicine clinic and diagnosed with impetigo?1. Obtain specimen for culture.2. Apply topical antibiotic ointment.3. Give the client a hand hygiene handout.4. Clean off the crust from the lesion.5. Apply a sterile dressing to the wound._____, _____, _____, _____, _____25. Which personal protective equipment will the nurse need when planning adressing change for a client with a methicillin-resistant Staphylococcusaureus–infected skin wound? Select all that apply.1. Gown2. Gloves3. Goggles4. Surgical mask5. Booties26. The nurse takes the health history of a client who has been admitted to thesame-day surgery unit for elective facial dermabrasion. Which information ismost important to convey to the plastic surgeon?1. The client does not routinely use sunscreen.2. The client has a family history of melanoma.2913. The client has not eaten anything for 8 hours.4. The client takes 325 mg of aspirin daily.27. The charge nurse on a medical-surgical unit is working with a newlygraduated RN who has been on orientation to the unit for 3 weeks. Whichclient is best to assign to the new graduate?1. A 34-year-old client who was just admitted to the unit with periorbitalcellulitis2. A 40-year-old client who needs discharge instructions after having skingrafts to the thigh3. A 67-year-old client who requires a dressing change after hydrotherapy fora pressure ulcer4. A 78-year-old client who needs teaching before a punch biopsy of a faciallesion28. When the nurse is evaluating a client who has been taking prednisone30 mg/day to treat contact dermatitis, which finding is most important toreport to the health care provider?1. The glucose level is 136 mg/dL (7.6 mmol/L).2. The client states, “I am eating all the time.”3. The client reports frequent epigastric pain.4. The blood pressure is 148/84 mm Hg.29. The charge nurse is supervising a newly hired RN. Which action by the newRN requires the most immediate action by the charge nurse?1. Obtaining an anaerobic culture specimen from a superficial burn wound2. Giving doxycycline with a glass of milk to a client with cellulitis3. Discussing the use of herpes zoster vaccine with a 25-year-old client4. Teaching a newly admitted burn client about the use of pressure garments30. Which finding by the clinic nurse about a client who has been takingadalimumab to treat psoriasis is most indicative of a need for a change intherapy?1. Temperature 100.9°F (38.3°C)2. Patches of scaly skin on chest3. Erythema on sun-exposed areas of skin4. Client report of worsening depression31. At the beginning of the shift, an unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) tellsthe nurse, “I have several clients today who have wound infections. I will domy best, but if I put on a gown and gloves every time I go into their rooms, Iwill never get all the care done!” Which response by the nurse is best?1. “I know you are busy, but please try to comply with the standard infectioncontrol measures because these clients have serious infections.”2. “Let's look at the client assignments for today and make changes so that292you can give the needed care and maintain good infection control.”3. “If you are unable to follow infection control standards, perhaps you need areview class in correct use of personal protective equipment.”4. “Tell me what you think are the most important times to use personalprotective equipment to prevent infections from spreading.”293Answer Key1. Ans: 2, 3, 5, 6 Current guidelines for promotion of venous ulcer healingsuggest use of compression, appropriate analgesia, use of exercises toimprove venous return, and wound cleansing with a non-irritating solutionsuch as normal saline. The extremity should be elevated to promote venousreturn and decrease swelling. A moist environment encourages woundhealing. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 2 Tenting of the skin on younger clients may indicate dehydration andthe need for oral or IV fluid administration. The other data will be recordedbut do not require any rapid interventions. Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 3 The “azole” antifungal medications inhibit drug-metabolizingenzymes (when used orally or intravenously) and can lead to toxic levels ofmany other medications, including some commonly prescribed statins. Thickand yellow toenails are typical with fungal infections in this area, and clientsmay be embarrassed by the appearance of the nails, but antifungal treatmentwill improve the appearance of the nails. The client's iodine allergy will bereported to the HCP but will not impact on use of itraconazole. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Be aware that the “azole” medications affectcytochrome P450, an enzyme system that is responsible for the metabolism ofmany medications. When a client is taking an azole, plan to check any newlyprescribed medications for possible drug interactions that might lead totoxicity.4. Ans: 1 Although all family members (symptomatic or not) should be treatedfor scabies, permethrin is contraindicated in clients who are younger than 2months of age because of concerns that the medication may be absorbedsystemically. Burrows on the wrist are commonly seen with scabies. Theclient's homelessness may affect teaching about how to launder clothes andlinens but will not impact on use of permethrin for treating the scabiesinfestation. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 3 An LPN/LVN who is experienced in working with postoperativeclients will know how to monitor for pain, bleeding, or swelling and willnotify the supervising RN. Client teaching requires more education and abroader scope of practice and is appropriate for RN staff members. Focus:Assignment.6. Ans: 4 LPN/LVN education and scope of practice includes sterile andnonsterile wound care. LPNs/LVNs do function as wound care nurses insome LTC facilities, but the choice of dressing type and assessment for riskfactors are more complex skills that are appropriate to the RN level ofpractice. Assisting the client to change position is a task included in UAPeducation and would be more appropriate to delegate to the UAP. Focus:Assignment.2947. Ans: 2 Facial burns are frequently associated with airway inflammation andswelling, so this client requires the most immediate assessment. The otherclients also require rapid assessment or interventions but not as urgently asthe client with facial burns. Focus: Prioritization.8. Ans: 3, 4, 2, 1, 5 Pain medication should be administered before changing thedressing because changing dressings for partial-thickness burns is painful,especially if the dressing change involves removal of eschar. The woundshould be débrided before obtaining wound specimens for culture to avoidincluding bacteria that are skin contaminants rather than causes of the woundinfection. Culture specimens should be obtained before the application ofantibacterial creams. The antibacterial cream should then be applied to thearea after débridement to gain the maximum effect. Finally, the woundshould be covered with a sterile dressing. Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 3 A nurse from the oncology unit would be familiar with dressingchanges and sterile technique. The charge RN in the burn unit would workclosely with the float RN to provide partners to assist in providing care andto answer any questions. Admission assessment and development of theinitial care plan, discharge teaching, and splint positioning in burn clients allrequire expertise in caring for clients with burns. These clients should beassigned to RNs who regularly work on the burn unit. Focus: Assignment.10. Ans: 4 Irregular borders and a black or variegated color are characteristicsassociated with malignant skin lesions. Striae and toenail thickening oryellowing are common in older adults. Silver scaling is associated withchronic conditions such as psoriasis and eczema, which may need treatmentbut are not as urgent a concern as the appearance of the mole. Focus:Prioritization.11. Ans: 1 A blue color or cyanosis may indicate that the client has significantproblems with circulation or ventilation. Further assessment of respiratoryand circulatory status is needed immediately to determine if actions such asadministration of oxygen or medications are appropriate. The other data mayalso indicate health problems in major body systems, but potentialrespiratory or circulatory abnormalities are the priority. Focus: Prioritization.12. Ans: 4 Because exposure to clients with shingles may cause herpes zosterinfection (including systemic infection) in individuals who are immunesuppressed, teaching about how to prevent transmission and possibleevaluation and treatment of the client's spouse is needed. Antiviral treatmentis most effective when started within 72 hours of symptom development. Theclient will need analgesics to treat the pain associated with shingles and mayreceive vaccination, but the biggest concern is possible infection of the client'sspouse. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 4 Because urticaria can be associated with anaphylaxis, assessment forclinical manifestations of anaphylaxis (e.g., respiratory distress, wheezes, orhypotension) should be done immediately. The other actions are also295appropriate, but therapy will change if an anaphylactic reaction is occurring.Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 1 Because isotretinoin is associated with a high incidence of birthdefects, it is important that the client stop using the medication at least 1month before attempting to become pregnant. Nausea and muscle aches arepossible adverse effects of isotretinoin that would require further assessmentbut are not as urgent as discussing the fetal risks associated with thismedication. The client's concern about whether treatment is effective shouldbe addressed, but this is a lower priority intervention. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 3 Scheduling a follow-up appointment for the client is within the legalscope of practice and training for the UAP role. Client teaching, assessmentfor positive skin reactions to the test, and monitoring for serious allergicreactions are appropriate to the education and practice role of licensednursing staff. Focus: Delegation.16. Ans: 1 Systemic use of tetracyclines such as doxycycline is associated withsevere photosensitivity reactions to ultraviolet (UV) light. All individualsshould be taught about the potential risks of overexposure to sunlight orother UV light, but the client taking doxycycline is at the most immediate riskfor severe adverse effects. Focus: Prioritization.17. Ans: 3 Although it is not appropriate for UAPs to plan or implement initialclient or family teaching, reinforcement of previous teaching is an importantfunction of UAPs (who are likely to be in the home on a daily basis). Teachingabout medication use, nutritional assessment and planning, and evaluationfor improvement are included in the RN scope of practice. Focus: Delegation.18. Ans: 1 Medication administration is included in LPN/LVN education andscope of practice. Bathing and cleaning clients require the least education andwould be better delegated to a UAP. Assessment and evaluation of outcomesof care are more complex skills best performed by RNs. Focus: Assignment;Test Taking Tip: When deciding what nursing actions should be done bystaff with various levels of education, remember to consider effective use ofresources and use staff to the level of their education. Although LPN/LVNstaff members can provide more basic care, it's best to assign them tointerventions that take advantage of their education and scope of practice.19. Ans: 2 The highest priority problems for this client are pain and inadequatenutrition. Administration of analgesics is the most important action becausethe client's acute oral pain will need to be controlled to increase the ability toeat and to improve nutrition. The client's concern about appearance andrefusal to see visitors are also concerns but are not as high priority as the needfor pain control and improved nutrition. Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 4 Wheals are frequently associated with allergic reactions, so askingabout exposure to new medications is the most appropriate question for thisclient. The other questions would be useful in assessing the skin healthhistory but do not directly relate to the client's symptoms. Focus:296Prioritization.21. Ans: 2 With chemical injuries, it is important to remove the chemical fromcontact with the skin to prevent ongoing damage. The other actions alsoshould be accomplished rapidly; however, rinsing the chemical off is thepriority for this client. Focus: Prioritization.22. Ans: 3 This client's vital signs indicate that the life-threatening complicationsof sepsis and septic shock may be developing. The other clients also needrapid assessment or nursing interventions, but their symptoms do notindicate that they need care as urgently as the febrile and hypotensive client.Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Remember that when skin integrity isaffected due to large burn injuries, clients are at high risk for complicationssuch as sepsis and hypovolemia. You should monitor for changes in vitalsigns that might indicate these complications are occurring.23. Ans: 150 The label indicates 600 mg of medication in 300 mL. To infuse300 mL in 2 hours, the nurse will need to give 150 mL/hr. Focus:Prioritization.24. Ans: 4, 1, 2, 5, 3 Culture of the wound will be needed before any antibiotictherapy, but the crust should be removed before wound culture to obtain aspecimen that is not contaminated by normal skin bacteria. Application oftopical antibiotic will be most effective with the crust removed and should befollowed by covering the wound with a sterile dressing. The nurse willprovide written teaching materials when the client is not distracted by theculture and dressing activities. Focus: Prioritization.25. Ans: 1, 2 Contact precautions include gown and gloves when doing dressingchanges for a client with an infected wound. Booties are not needed forcontact precautions. Goggles and a surgical mask may be needed if splashesor sprays are anticipated (e.g., with wound irrigation). Focus: Prioritization.26. Ans: 4 Because aspirin affects platelet aggregation, the client is at increasedrisk for postprocedure bleeding, and the surgeon may need to reschedule theprocedure. The other information is also pertinent but will not affect thescheduling of the procedure. Focus: Prioritization.27. Ans: 3 A new graduate would be familiar with the procedure for a steriledressing change, especially after working for 3 weeks on the unit. Clientswhose care requires more complex skills such as admission assessments,preprocedure teaching, and discharge teaching should be assigned to moreexperienced RN staff members. Focus: Assignment.28. Ans: 3 Epigastric pain may indicate that the client is developing pepticulcers, which require collaborative interventions such as the use of antacids,histamine2 receptor blockers, or proton pump inhibitors. The elevation inblood glucose level, increased appetite, and slight elevation in blood pressuremay be related to prednisone use but are not clinically significant whensteroids are used for limited periods and do not require treatment. Focus:297Prioritization.29. Ans: 2 Dairy products inhibit the absorption of doxycycline, so this actionwould decrease the effectiveness of the antibiotic. The other activities are notappropriate but would not cause as much potential harm as theadministration of doxycycline with milk. Anaerobic bacteria would not belikely to grow in a superficial wound. The herpes zoster vaccine isrecommended for clients who are 60 years or older. Pressure garments maybe used after graft wounds heal and during the rehabilitation period after aburn injury, but this should be discussed when the client is ready forrehabilitation, not when the client is admitted. Focus: Prioritization.30. Ans: 1 Biologic immunomodulating agents such as adalimumab (which arefrequently used in autoimmune disorders) increase infection risk and shouldbe discontinued in clients with manifestations of infection. Scaly patches,erythema after sun exposure, and depression need further investigation andmay require changes in therapy, but the highest concern is risk for worseninginfection if the medication is continued. Focus: Prioritization.31. Ans: 2 Seeking the UAP's input into changes is respectful and helps withteam dynamics. This response also most directly addresses the UAP's concernabout difficulties with time management. Asking the UAP to try to complysuggests that noncompliance with needed infection control actions is anoption. The suggestion that the UAP will have to attend a class isdisrespectful because it sounds like a threat, and there is no indication thatthe UAP needs more training on infection control. Asking the UAP to clarifywhen personal protective equipment is needed may lead to useful discussionabout infection control but should be done when more time is available fordiscussion. Focus: Delegation.298C H A P T E R 1 6299Renal and Urinary Problems300Questions1. The nurse is reviewing the lab values for a patient with risk for urinaryproblems. Which finding is of most concern to the nurse?1. Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) of 10 mg/mL (3.6 mmol/L)2. Presence of glucose and protein in urine3. Serum creatinine of 0.6 mg/mL (53 mcmol/L)4. Urinary pH of 82. For which patient is the nurse most concerned about the risk for developingkidney disease?1. A 25-year-old patient who developed a urinary tract infection (UTI) duringpregnancy2. A 55-year-old patient with a history of kidney stones3. A 63-year-old patient with type 2 diabetes4. A 79-year-old patient with stress urinary incontinence3. The nurse is caring for a patient with risk for kidney disease for whom aurinalysis has been ordered. What time would the nurse instruct theunlicensed assistive personnel is best to collect this sample?1. With first morning void2. Before any meal3. At bedtime4. Immediately4. The nurse has delegated collection of a urinalysis specimen to an experiencedunlicensed assistive personnel (UAP). For which action must the nurseintervene?1. The UAP provides the patient with a specimen cup.2. The UAP reminds the patient of the need for the specimen.3. The UAP assists the patient to the bathroom.4. The UAP allows the specimen to sit for more than 1 hour.5. The nurse is caring for a patient with risk for incomplete bladder emptying.Which noninvasive finding best supports this problem?1. Patient is able to void additional 100 mL after nurse massages over thebladder.2. Patient voids additional 350 mL with insertion of an intermittent catheter.3. Patient has postvoid residual of 275 mL documented by bedside bladderscanner.4. Patient has constant dribbling between voidings.6. The nurse is providing care for a patient after a kidney biopsy. Which actions301should the nurse delegate to an experienced unlicensed assistive personnel(UAP)? Select all that apply.1. Check vital signs every 4 hours for 24 hours.2. Remind the patient about strict bed rest for 2 to 6 hours.3. Reposition the patient by log-rolling with supporting backroll.4. Measure and record urine output.5. Assess the dressing site for bleeding and check complete blood countresults.6. Teach the patient to resume normal activities after 24 hours if there is nobleeding.7. The nurse is providing nursing care for a 24-year-old female patient admittedto the acute care unit with a diagnosis of cystitis. Which intervention shouldthe nurse delegate to the unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Teaching the patient how to secure a clean-catch urine sample2. Assessing the patient's urine for color, odor, and sediment3. Reviewing the nursing care plan and add nursing interventions4. Providing the patient with a clean-catch urine sample container8. Which laboratory result is of most concern to the nurse for an adult patientwith cystitis?1. Serum white blood cell (WBC) count of 9000/mm3 (9 x 109/L)2. Urinalysis results showing 1 or 2 WBCs present3. Urine bacteria count of 100,000 colonies per milliliter4. Serum hematocrit of 36%9. The charge nurse would assign the nursing care of which patient to anLPN/LVN, working under the supervision of an RN?1. A 48-year-old patient with cystitis who is taking oral antibiotics2. A 64-year-old patient with kidney stones who has a new order forlithotripsy3. A 72-year-old patient with urinary incontinence who needs bladdertraining4. A 52-year-old patient with pyelonephritis who has severe acute flank pain10. The nurse is admitting a 66-year-old male patient suspected of having aurinary tract infection (UTI). Which part of the patient's medical historysupports this diagnosis?1. Patient's wife had a UTI 1 month ago2. Followed for prostate disease for 2 years3. Intermittent catheterization 6 months ago4. Kidney stone removal 1 year ago11. A patient is being admitted to rule out interstitial cystitis. What should the302nurse's plan of care for this patient include specific to this diagnosis?1. Take daily urine samples for urinalysis.2. Maintain accurate intake and output records.3. Obtain an admission urine sample to determine electrolyte levels.4. Teach the patient about the cystoscopy procedure.12. The RN is supervising a new graduate nurse who is orientating to the unit.The new nurse asks why the patient with uncomplicated cystitis is beingdischarged with a prescription for ciprofloxacin 250 mg twice a day for only 3days. What is the RN's best response?1. “We should check with the health care provider because the patient shouldtake this drug for 10 to 14 days.”2. “A 3-day course of ciprofloxacin is not the appropriate treatment for apatient with uncomplicated cystitis.”3. “Research has shown that a 3-day course of ciprofloxacin is effective foruncomplicated cystitis and there is increased patient adherence to the planof care.”4. “Longer courses of antibiotic therapy are required for hospitalized patientsto prevent nosocomial infections.”13. A 28-year-old married female patient with cystitis requires instruction abouthow to prevent future urinary tract infections (UTIs). The supervising RN hasassigned this teaching to a newly graduated nurse. Which statement by thenew graduate requires that the supervising RN intervene?1. “You should always drink 2 to 3 L of fluid every day.”2. “Empty your bladder regularly even if you do not feel the urge to urinate.”3. “Drinking cranberry juice daily will decrease the number of bacteria inyour bladder.”4. “It's okay to soak in the tub with bubble bath because it will keep youclean.”14. The nurse is creating a care plan for older adult patients with incontinence.For which patient will a bladder-training program be an appropriateintervention?1. Patient with functional incontinence caused by mental status changes2. Patient with stress incontinence due to weakened bladder neck support3. Patient with urge incontinence and abnormal detrusor muscle contractions4. Patient with transient incontinence related to loss of cognitive function15. A patient with incontinence will be taking oxybutynin chloride 5 mg bymouth three times a day after discharge. Which information would a nurse besure to teach this patient before discharge?1. “Drink fluids or use hard candy when you experience a dry mouth.”2. “Be sure to notify your health care provider (HCP) if you experience a dry303mouth.”3. “If necessary, your HCP can increase your dose up to 40 mg/day.”4. “You should take this medication with meals to avoid stomach ulcers.”16. The nurse is providing care for a patient with reflex urinary incontinence.Which action could be appropriately assigned to a new LPN/LVN?1. Teaching the patient bladder emptying by the Credé method2. Demonstrating how to perform intermittent self-catheterization3. Discussing when to report the side effects of bethanechol chloride to thehealth care provider (HCP)4. Reinforcing the importance of proper hand washing to prevent infection17. A patient has urolithiasis and is passing the stones into the lower urinarytract. What is the priority nursing concern for the patient at this time?1. Pain2. Infection3. Injury4. Anxiety18. The RN is supervising a nurse orientating to the acute care unit who isdischarging a patient admitted with kidney stones and who underwentlithotripsy. Which statement by the orienting nurse to the patient requiresthat the supervising RN intervene?1. “You should finish all of your antibiotics to make sure that you don’t get aurinary tract infection (UTI).”2. “Remember to drink at least 3 L of fluids every day to prevent anotherstone from forming.”3. “Report any signs of bruising to your health care provider (HCP)immediately because this indicates bleeding.”4. “You can return to work in 2 days to 6 weeks, depending on what yourHCP prescribes.”19. The RN is teaching a patient how to perform intermittent self-catheterizationfor a long-term problem with incomplete bladder emptying. Which areimportant points for teaching this technique? Select all that apply.1. Always use sterile techniques.2. Proper hand washing and cleaning of the catheter reduce the risk forinfection.3. A small lumen and good lubrication of the catheter prevent urethraltrauma.4. A regular schedule for bladder emptying prevents distention and mucosaltrauma.5. The social work department can help you with the purchase of sterilesupplies.3046. If you are uncomfortable with this procedure, a home health nurse can doit.20. The charge nurse must rearrange room assignments to admit a new patient.Which two patients would be best suited to be roommates?1. A 58-year-old patient with urothelial cancer receiving multiagentchemotherapy2. A 63-year-old patient with kidney stones who has just undergone openureterolithotomy3. A 24-year-old patient with acute pyelonephritis and severe flank pain4. A 76-year-old patient with urge incontinence and a urinary tract infection(UTI)_____, _____21. The patient problem of constipation related to compression of the intestinaltract has been identified in a patient with polycystic kidney disease. Whichcare action should the nurse assign to a newly-trained LPN/LVN?1. Instructing the patient about foods that are high in fiber2. Teaching the patient about foods that assist in promoting bowel regularity3. Assessing the patient for previous bowel problems and bowel routine4. Administering docusate sodium 100 mg by mouth twice a day22. A male patient must undergo intermittent catheterization. The nurse ispreparing to insert a catheter to assess the patient for postvoid residual. Placethe steps for intermittent catheterization in the correct order.1. Assist the patient to the bathroom and ask the patient to attempt to void.2. Retract the foreskin and hold the penis at a 60- to 90-degree angle.3. Open the catheterization kit and put on sterile gloves.4. Lubricate the catheter and insert it through the meatus of the penis.5. Position the patient supine in bed or with the head slightly elevated.6. Drain all the urine present in the bladder into a container.7. Cleanse the glans penis starting at the meatus and working outward.8. Remove the catheter, clean the penis, and measure the amount of urinereturned._____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____23. The nurse is admitting a patient with nephrotic syndrome. Whichassessment finding supports this diagnosis?1. Edema formation2. Hypotension3. Increased urine output4. Flank pain24. When the nurse must apply containment strategies for a patient withincontinence, what is the major risk?3051. Incontinence-associated dermatitis2. Skin breakdown3. Infection4. Fluid imbalance25. The nurse is caring for a patient with renal cell carcinoma (adenocarcinomaof the kidney). While serving as preceptor for a new nurse orienting to theunit, the nurse is asked why this patient is not receiving chemotherapy. Whatis the best response?1. “The prognosis for this form of cancer is very poor, and we will beproviding only comfort measures.”2. “Nephrectomy is the preferred treatment because chemotherapy has beenshown to have only limited effectiveness against this type of cancer.”3. “Research has shown that the most effective means of treating this form ofcancer is with radiation therapy.”4. “Radiofrequency ablation is a minimally invasive procedure that is the bestway to treat renal cell carcinoma.”26. The nurse is teaching a patient how best to prevent renal trauma after aninjury that required a left nephrectomy. Which points would the nurseinclude in the teaching plan? Select all that apply.1. Always wear a seat belt.2. Avoid contact sports.3. Practice safe walking habits.4. Wear protective clothing if you participate in contact sports.5. Use caution when riding a bicycle.6. Always avoid use of drugs that may damage the kidney.27. The nurse is providing nursing care for a patient with acute kidney failurefor whom volume overload has been identified. Which actions should thenurse delegate to an experienced unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?Select all that apply.1. Measuring and recording vital sign values every 4 hours2. Weighing the patient every morning using a standing scale3. Administering furosemide 40 mg orally twice a day4. Reminding the patient to save all urine for intake and output measurement5. Assessing breath sounds every 4 hours6. Ensuring that the patient's urinal is within reach28. An unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) reports to the RN that a patientwith acute kidney failure had a urine output of 350 mL over the past 24 hoursafter receiving furosemide 40 mg IV push. The UAP asks the nurse how thiscan happen. What is the nurse's best response?1. “During the oliguric phase of acute kidney failure, patients often do not306respond well to either fluid challenges or diuretics.”2. “There must be some sort of error. Someone must have failed to record theurine output.”3. “A patient with acute kidney failure retains sodium and water, whichcounteracts the action of the furosemide.”4. “The gradual accumulation of nitrogenous waste products results in theretention of water and sodium.”29. Which patient will the charge nurse assign to an RN floated to the acute careunit from the surgical intensive care unit (SICU)?1. A patient with kidney stones scheduled for lithotripsy this morning2. A patient who has just undergone surgery for renal stent placement3. A newly admitted patient with an acute urinary tract infection (UTI)4. A patient with chronic kidney failure who needs teaching on peritonealdialysis30. The patient is receiving IV piggyback doses of gentamicin every 12 hours.Which would be the nurse's priority for monitoring during the period thatthe patient is receiving this drug?1. Serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen levels2. Patient weight every morning3. Intake and output every shift4. Temperature31. A patient diagnosed with acute kidney failure had a urine output of 1560 mLfor the past 8 hours. The LPN/LVN who is caring for this patient under theRN's supervision asks how a patient with kidney failure can have such alarge urine output. What is the RN's best response?1. “The patient's kidney failure was caused by hypovolemia, and we havegiven him IV fluids to correct the problem.”2. “Acute kidney failure patients go through a diuretic phase when theirkidneys begin to recover and may put out as much as 10 L of urine perday.”3. “With that much urine output, there must have been a mistake in thepatient's diagnosis.”4. “An increase in urine output like this is an indicator that the patient isentering the recovery phase of acute kidney failure.”32. A patient on the medical-surgical unit with acute kidney failure is to begincontinuous arteriovenous hemofiltration (CAVH) as soon as possible. What isthe priority collaborative action at this time?1. Call the charge nurse and arrange to transfer the patient to the intensivecare unit.2. Develop a teaching plan for the patient that focuses on CAVH.3073. Assist the patient with morning bath and mouth care before transfer.4. Notify the health care provider (HCP) that the patient's mean arterialpressure is 68 mm Hg.33. The nurse is caring for a patient admitted with dehydration secondary todeficient antidiuretic hormone (ADH). Which specific gravity value supportsthis diagnosis?1. 1.0102. 1.0353. 1.0204. 1.00234. The RN is supervising a senior nursing student who is caring for a 78-yearoldpatient scheduled for an intravenous pyelography test. What informationwould the RN be sure to stress about this procedure to the nursing student?1. “After the procedure, monitor urine output because contrast dye increasesthe risk for kidney failure in older adults.”2. “The purpose of this procedure is to measure kidney size.”3. “Because this procedure assesses kidney function, there is no need for abowel prep.”4. “Keep the patient NPO after the procedure because during the procedurethe patient will receive drugs that affect the gag reflex.”35. The RN supervising a senior nursing student is discussing methods forpreventing acute kidney injury (AKI). Which points would the RN be sure toinclude in this discussion? Select all that apply.1. Encourage patients to avoid dehydration by drinking adequate fluids.2. Instruct patients to drink extra fluids during periods of strenuous exercise.3. Immediately report a urine output of less than 2 mL/kg/hr.4. Record intake and output and weigh patients daily.5. Question any prescriptions for potentially nephrotoxic drugs.6. Monitor laboratory values that reflect kidney function.36. The nurse is caring for a patient with chronic kidney disease afterhemodialysis. Which patient care action should the nurse delegate to theexperienced unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Assess the patient's access site for a thrill and bruit.2. Monitor for signs and symptoms of postdialysis bleeding.3. Check the patient's postdialysis blood pressure and weight.4. Instruct the patient to report signs of dialysis disequilibrium syndromeimmediately.308Answer Key1. Ans: 2 When blood glucose levels are greater than 220 mg/dL (12.2 mmol/L),some glucose stays in the filtrate and is present in the urine. Normally, almostall glucose and most proteins are reabsorbed and are not present in the urine.Report the presence of glucose or proteins in the urine of a patientundergoing a screening examination to the health care provider because thisis an abnormal finding and requires further assessment. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 3 A history of chronic health problems, especially diabetes andhypertension, increases the risk for development of kidney disease. Focus:Prioritization.3. Ans: 1 Urinalysis is a part of any complete physical examination and isespecially useful for patients with suspected kidney or urologic disorders.Ideally, the urine specimen is collected at the morning's first voiding.Specimens obtained at other times may be too dilute. Focus: Delegation,Supervision.4. Ans: 4 Urine specimens become more alkaline when left standingunrefrigerated for more than 1 hour, when bacteria are present, or when aspecimen is left uncovered. Alkaline urine increases cell breakdown; thus, thepresence of red blood cells may be missed on analysis. Ensure that urinespecimens are covered and delivered to the laboratory promptly orrefrigerated. Actions 1, 2, and 3 are appropriate for urinalysis specimencollection. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.5. Ans: 3 The use of portable ultrasound scanners in the hospital andrehabilitation setting by nurses is a noninvasive method of estimatingbladder volume. Bladder scanners are used to screen for postvoid residualvolumes and to determine the need for intermittent catheterization based onthe amount of urine in the bladder rather than the time betweencatheterizations. There is no discomfort with the scan, and no patientpreparation beyond an explanation of what to expect is required. Use ofbladder massage or presence of urinary dribbling is inexact, and intermittentcatheterization is invasive. Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 4 Checking vital signs, repositioning patients, and recordingintake and output are within the scope of practice for a UAP. Assessing andteaching are more within the scope of practice for professional nurses. If nobleeding occurs, the patient can resume general activities after 24 hours.However, instruct him or her to avoid lifting heavy objects, exercising, andperforming other strenuous activities for 1 to 2 weeks after the biopsyprocedure. Driving may also be restricted. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.7. Ans: 4 Providing the equipment that the patient needs to collect the urinesample is within the scope of practice of a UAP. Teaching, planning, andassessing all require additional education and skill, which is appropriate to309the scope of practice of professional nurses. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.8. Ans: 3 The presence of 100,000 bacterial colonies per milliliter of urine or thepresence of many white blood cells (WBCs) and red blood cells (RBCs)indicates a urinary tract infection. This WBC count is within normal limits,and the hematocrit is a little low, which may need follow-up. Neither of theseresults indicates infection. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: It isessential that the nurse be alert to any signs or symptoms of infection for apatient. In this case, the presence of so many bacterial colonies indicate thepresence of an infection in the bladder, which needs to be treated withantibiotics.9. Ans: 1 The patient with cystitis who is taking oral antibiotics is in stablecondition with predictable outcomes, and caring for this patient is thereforeappropriate to the scope of practice of an LPN/LVN under the supervision ofan RN. The patient with a new order for lithotripsy will need teaching aboutthe procedure, which should be accomplished by the RN. The patient in needof bladder training will need the RN to plan this intervention. The patientwith flank pain needs careful and skilled assessment by the RN. Focus:Assignment.10. Ans: 2 Prostate disease increases the risk of UTIs in men because of urinaryretention. The wife's UTI should not affect the patient. The times of thecatheter usage and kidney stone removal are too distant to cause this UTI.Focus: Prioritization.11. Ans: 4 A cystoscopy is needed to accurately diagnose interstitial cystitis.Urinalysis may show white blood cells and red blood cells but no bacteria.The patient will probably need a urinalysis upon admission, but dailysamples do not need to be obtained. Intake and output may be assessed, butresults will not contribute to the diagnosis. Cystitis does not usually affecturine electrolyte levels. Focus: Prioritization.12. Ans: 3 For uncomplicated cystitis, a 3-day course of antibiotics is an effectivetreatment, and research has shown that patients are more likely to adhere toshorter antibiotic courses. Seven-day courses of antibiotics are appropriate forcomplicated cystitis, and 10- to 14-day courses are prescribed foruncomplicated pyelonephritis. This patient is being discharged and shouldnot be at risk for a nosocomial infection. Focus: Prioritization, Supervision.13. Ans: 4 Women should avoid irritating substances such as bubble baths,nylon underwear, and scented toilet tissue to prevent UTIs. Adequate fluidintake, consumption of cranberry juice, and regular voiding are all goodstrategies for preventing UTIs. Focus: Assignment, Supervision,Prioritization.14. Ans: 3 A patient with urge incontinence can be taught to control the bladderas long as the patient is alert, aware, and able to resist the urge to urinate bystarting a schedule for voiding, then increasing the intervals between voids.Patients with functional incontinence related to mental status changes or loss310of cognitive function are not able to follow a bladder-training program. Abetter treatment for a patient with stress incontinence is exercises such aspelvic floor (Kegel) exercises to strengthen the pelvic floor muscles. Focus:Prioritization.15. Ans: 1 Oxybutynin is an anticholinergic agent, and these drugs often causean extremely dry mouth. The maximum dosage is 20 mg/day. Oxybutyninshould be taken between meals because food interferes with absorption of thedrug. Focus: Prioritization.16. Ans: 4 Teaching about bladder emptying, self-catheterization, and when tonotify the HCP about medication side effects requires additional knowledgeand training and is appropriate to the scope of practice of the RN. TheLPN/LVN can reinforce information that has already been taught to thepatient. Focus: Assignment, Supervision.17. Ans: 1 When patients with urolithiasis pass stones, they can be inexcruciating pain for as much as 24 to 36 hours. All of the other nursingconcerns for this patient are accurate; however, at this time, pain is the mosturgent concern for the patient. Focus: Prioritization.18. Ans: 3 Bruising is to be expected after lithotripsy. It may be quite extensiveand take several weeks to resolve. All of the other statements are accurate fora patient after lithotripsy. Focus: Assignment, Supervision, Prioritization.19. Ans: 2, 3, 4 Intermittent self-catheterization is often used to help patientswith long-term problems of incomplete bladder emptying. It is not a sterileprocedure and does not require sterile equipment. It is a clean procedure.Important teaching points include responses 2, 3, and 4 of this question.Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 3, 4 Both of these patients will need frequent assessments andmedications. The patient receiving chemotherapy and the patient who hasjust undergone surgery should not be exposed to any patient with infection.Focus: Assignment, Prioritization.21. Ans: 4 Administering oral medications appropriately is covered in theeducational program for LPNs/LVNs and is within their scope of practice.Teaching and assessing the patient require additional education and skill andare appropriate to the scope of practice of RNs. Focus: Assignment,Supervision.22. Ans: 1, 5, 3, 2, 7, 4, 6, 8 Before checking postvoid residual, the RN should askthe patient to void and then position him. Next the nurse should open thecatheterization kit and put on sterile gloves, position the patient's penis, cleanthe meatus, and then lubricate and insert the catheter. All urine must bedrained from the bladder to assess the amount of postvoid residual thepatient has. Finally, the catheter is removed, the penis cleaned, and the urinemeasured. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: For this type of question,the nurse must stop and think about the correct steps for performing anursing action and then place them in the correct order.31123. Ans: 1 The underlying pathophysiology of nephrotic syndrome involvesincreased glomerular permeability, which allows larger molecules to passthrough the membrane into the urine and be removed from the blood. Thisprocess causes massive loss of protein, edema formation, and decreasedserum albumin levels. Key features include hypertension and renalinsufficiency (decreased urine output) related to concurrent renal veinthrombosis, which may be a cause or an effect of nephrotic syndrome. Flankpain is seen in patients with acute pyelonephritis. Focus: Prioritization.24. Ans: 2 A major concern with the use of wearable protective pads is the riskfor skin breakdown. Some patients may develop incontinence-associateddermatitis even when the skin is kept free of contact with urine becausewearable pads generate heat and sweat in the area and can cause dermatitis.Infection becomes a risk when skin breakdown occurs. Focus: Prioritization.25. Ans: 2 Chemotherapy has limited effectiveness against renal cell carcinoma.This form of cancer is usually treated surgically with nephrectomy. Focus:Supervision, Prioritization.26. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 5 A patient with only one kidney should avoid all contact sportsand high-risk activities to protect the remaining kidney from injury andpreserve kidney function. Protective clothing may not be enough to protectthe patient's remaining kidney. Drugs that may cause kidney damage maystill be prescribed, especially to save a patient's life. All of the other points arekey to preventing renal trauma. Focus: Prioritization.27. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 6 Administering oral medications is appropriate to the scope ofpractice for an LPN/LVN or RN. Assessing breath sounds requires additionaleducation and skill development and is most appropriately within the scopeof practice of an RN, but it may be part of the observations of an experiencedand competent LPN/LVN. All other actions are within the educationalpreparation and scope of practice of an experienced UAP. Focus: Delegation,Supervision.28. Ans: 1 During the oliguric phase of acute kidney failure, a patient's urineoutput is greatly reduced. Fluid boluses and diuretics do not work well. Thisphase usually lasts from 8 to 15 days. Although there are occasionallyomissions in recording intake and output, this is probably not the cause of thepatient's decreased urine output. Retention of sodium and water is therationale for giving furosemide, not the reason that it is ineffective.Nitrogenous wastes build up as a result of the kidneys’ inability to performtheir elimination function. Focus: Prioritization, Supervision.29. Ans: 2 A nurse from the surgical ICU will be thoroughly familiar andcomfortable with the care of patients who have just undergone surgery. Thepatient scheduled for lithotripsy may need education about the procedure.The newly admitted patient needs an in-depth admission assessment, and thepatient with chronic kidney failure needs teaching about peritoneal dialysis.All of these interventions would best be accomplished by an experienced312nurse with expertise in the care of patients with kidney problems. Focus:Assignment.30. Ans: 1 Gentamicin can be a highly nephrotoxic substance. The nurse wouldmonitor creatinine and blood urea nitrogen levels for elevations indicatingpossible nephrotoxicity. All of the other measures are important but are notspecific to gentamicin therapy. Focus: Prioritization.31. Ans: 2 Patients with acute kidney failure usually go through a diuretic phase2 to 6 weeks after the onset of the oliguric phase. The diuresis can result in anoutput of up to 10 L/day of dilute urine. During this phase, it is important tomonitor for electrolyte and fluid imbalances. This is followed by the recoveryphase. A patient with acute kidney failure caused by hypovolemia wouldreceive IV fluids to correct the problem; however, this would not necessarilylead to the onset of diuresis. Focus: Supervision.32. Ans: 1 CAVH is a continuous renal replacement therapy that is prescribedfor patients with kidney failure who are critically ill and do not tolerate therapid shifts in fluids and electrolytes that are associated with hemodialysis. Ateaching plan is not urgent at this time. A patient must have a mean arterialpressure (MAP) of at least 60 mm Hg or more for CAVH to be of use. TheHCP should be notified about this patient's MAP; it is a priority but not thehighest priority. When a patient urgently needs a procedure, morning caredoes not take priority and may be deferred until later in the day. Focus:Prioritization.33. Ans: 4 A patient with dehydration due to deficient ADH would have dilutedurine with a decreased urine specific gravity. Normal urine specific gravityranges from 1.003 to 1.030. A specific gravity of 1.035 would indicate urinethat is concentrated. Focus: Prioritization.34. Ans: 1 The risk for contrast-induced kidney failure is greatest in patientswho are older or dehydrated. If possible, arrange for the patient to have thisprocedure early in the day to prevent dehydration. The purpose of thisprocedure is to assess kidney function and identify anomalies. Theadministration of drugs that affect the gag reflex is not done during thisprocedure. Focus: Supervision, Prioritization.35. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 6 Dehydration reduces perfusion and can lead to AKI. Patientsshould be encouraged to take in adequate fluids, and extra fluids should betaken in during strenuous exercise. Intake and output, as well as dailyweights, should be documented. Lab values that indicate kidney functionshould be followed. The health care provider should be notified for a urineoutput of less than 0.5 mL/kg/hr that persists for more than 2 hours. Manydrugs are potentially nephrotoxic but as still administered. Patients areencouraged to take in extra fluids, and nurses must monitor for anynephrotoxic effects when these drugs are prescribed. Focus: Prioritization.36. Ans: 3 Checking vital signs and weighing patients are within the scope ofpractice for the UAP. However, the nurse must be sure to caution the UAP to313check BP in the arm opposite to the access site. Assessing, teaching, andmonitoring require additional skills that fit within the scope of practice forthe professional nurse. Focus: Delegation.314C H A P T E R 1 7315Reproductive Problems316Questions1. A client who is being treated as an outpatient for pelvic inflammatory disease(PID) with oral antibiotics returns to the clinic after 3 days of treatment.Which finding by the nurse is of highest concern?1. Client reports nausea after taking the antibiotics.2. Client's abdominal rebound pain is unchanged.3. Client says she feels ashamed to have the infection.4. Client's cervical culture report shows gonorrhea.2. The nurse obtains the health history of a 37-year-old woman who isrequesting contraceptive therapy. Which information about the client willhave the most impact on the choice of contraceptive?1. History of uterine fibroids2. Blood pressure of 136/80 mm Hg3. Cigarette smoking of a pack/day4. Planning outpatient oral surgery3. A postmenopausal woman who is taking raloxifene for osteoporosis calls theclinic nurse with these concerns. Which information indicates a need forimmediate further evaluation?1. Experiences hot flashes several times weekly2. Describes family history of coronary artery disease3. Reports nasal stuffiness and runny nose4. Notices swelling and tenderness in left calf4. The nurse is assessing a long-term-care client with a history of benignprostatic hyperplasia. Which information will require the most immediateaction?1. The client states that he always has trouble starting his urinary stream.2. The chart shows an elevated level of prostate-specific antigen.3. The bladder is palpable above the symphysis pubis, and the client isrestless.4. The client says he has not voided since having a glass of juice 4 hours ago.5. While performing a breast examination on a 22-year-old client, the nurseobtains these data. Which finding is of most concern?1. Both breasts have many nodules in the upper outer quadrants.2. The client reports bilateral breast tenderness with palpation.3. The breast on the right side is slightly larger than the left breast.4. An irregularly shaped, nontender lump is palpable in the left breast.6. After undergoing a modified radical mastectomy, a client is transferred to the317postanesthesia care unit. Which nursing action is best to assign to anexperienced LPN/LVN?1. Monitoring the client's dressing for any signs of bleeding2. Documenting the initial assessment on the client's chart3. Communicating the client's status report to the charge nurse on the surgicalunit4. Teaching the client about the importance of using pain medication asneeded7. The nurse is working with an unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) to care fora client who has had a right breast lumpectomy and axillary lymph nodedissection. Which nursing action can be delegated to the UAP?1. Teaching the client why blood pressure measurements are taken on the leftarm2. Elevating the client's arm on two pillows to promote lymphatic drainage3. Assessing the client's right arm for lymphedema4. Reinforcing the dressing if it becomes saturated8. The nurse obtains the following assessment data about a client who has had atransurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) and has continuous bladderirrigation. Which finding indicates the most immediate need for nursingintervention?1. The client states that he feels a continuous urge to void.2. The catheter drainage is light pink with occasional clots.3. The catheter is taped to the client's thigh.4. The client reports painful bladder spasms.9. A client with benign prostatic hyperplasia has a new prescription fortamsulosin. Which statement about tamsulosin is most important to includewhen teaching this client?1. “This medication will improve your symptoms by shrinking the prostate.”2. “The force of your urinary stream will probably increase.”3. “Your blood pressure might decrease as a result of taking this medication.”4. “You should avoid sitting up or standing up too quickly.”10. The nurse is caring for a client who has just returned to the surgical unitafter a transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP). Which assessmentfinding will require the most immediate action?1. Blood pressure reading of 153/88 mm Hg2. Catheter that is draining deep red blood3. Client not wearing antiembolism hose4. Client report of abdominal cramping11. After a radical prostatectomy, a client is ready to be discharged. Whichnursing action included in the discharge plan should be assigned to an318experienced LPN/LVN?1. Reinforcing the client's need to check his temperature daily2. Teaching the client how to care for his retention catheter3. Documenting a discharge assessment in the client's chart4. Instructing the client about the prescribed narcotic analgesic12. The day after a radical prostatectomy, a client has blood clots in the urinarycatheter and reports bladder spasms. The client says that his right calf is soreand that he feels short of breath. Which action will the nurse take first?1. Irrigate the catheter with 50 mL of sterile saline.2. Administer oxybutynin 5 mg orally.3. Apply warm packs to the right calf.4. Measure oxygen saturation using pulse oximetry.13. The emergency department nurse receives change-of-shift report about fourclients. Which one should be assessed first?1. A 19-year-old client with scrotal swelling and severe pain that has notdecreased with elevation of the scrotum2. A 25-year-old client who has a painless indurated lesion on the glans penis3. A 44-year-old client with an elevated temperature, chills, and back painassociated with recurrent prostatitis4. A 77-year-old client with abdominal pain and acute bladder distention14. The nurse obtains this information when taking the health history of a 56-year-old postmenopausal woman. Which information is most important toreport to the health care provider (HCP)?1. Sagging of breasts bilaterally2. Vaginal dryness and painful intercourse3. Hot flashes occurring during the night4. Occasional painless vaginal bleeding15. The nurse is interviewing a woman who is in the clinic for a well womanexam, and the woman requests a screening test for ovarian cancer. Whichresponse by the nurse is best?1. “Only a small number of ovarian cancers are diagnosed at an early stage.”2. “There is no effective screening test for ovarian cancer in low-risk women.”3. “Benefits of ovarian cancer screening will depend on your medical history.”4. “Ovarian cancer screening will probably not be covered by yourinsurance.”16. A client who has just returned to the surgical unit after a transurethralresection of the prostate (TURP) reports acute bladder spasms. In whichorder will the nurse perform these prescribed actions?1. Administer acetaminophen/oxycodone 325 mg/5 mg.3192. Irrigate the retention catheter with 30 to 50 mL of sterile normal saline.3. Infuse 500 mL of 5% dextrose in lactated Ringer's solution over 2 hours.4. Offer the client oral fluids to at least 2500 to 3000 mL/day._____, _____, _____, _____17. A 68-year-old client who is ready for discharge from the emergencydepartment has a new prescription for nitroglycerin 0.4 mg sublingual asneeded for angina. Which client information has the most immediateimplications for teaching?1. The client has prostatic hyperplasia with some urinary hesitancy.2. The client's father and two brothers all have had myocardial infarctions.3. The client uses sildenafil several times weekly for erectile dysfunction.4. The client is unable to remember when he first experienced chest pain.18. The nurse is caring for a 21-year-old client who had a left orchiectomy fortesticular cancer on the previous day. Which nursing activity will be best toassign to an LPN/LVN?1. Educating the client about post-orchiectomy chemotherapy and radiation2. Administering the prescribed “as needed” (PRN) oxycodone to the client3. Teaching the client how to do testicular self-examination on the remainingtesticle4. Assessing the client's knowledge level about post-orchiectomy fertility19. Which client is best for the oncology unit charge nurse to assign to an RNwho has floated from the emergency department?1. Client who needs doxorubicin chemotherapy to treat metastatic breastcancer2. Client who needs discharge teaching after surgery for stage II ovariancancer3. Client with metastatic prostate cancer who requires frequent assessmentand treatment for breakthrough pain4. Client with testicular cancer who requires preoperative teaching aboutorchiectomy and lymph node resection20. After receiving the change-of-shift report, in which order will the nurseassess these assigned clients?1. A 22-year-old client who has questions about how to care for the drainsplaced in her breast reconstruction incision2. An anxious 44-year-old client who is scheduled to be discharged todayafter undergoing a total vaginal hysterectomy3. A 69-year-old client who reports level 5 pain (on a scale of 0 to 10) afterundergoing perineal prostatectomy 2 days ago4. A usually oriented 78-year-old client who has new-onset confusion afterhaving a bilateral orchiectomy the previous day320_____, _____, _____, _____21. A client has had a needle biopsy of the prostate gland using the transrectalapproach. Which statement is most important to include in the client teachingplan?1. “The health care provider (HCP) will call you about the test results.”2. “Serious infections may occur as a complication of this test.”3. “You will need to call the HCP if you develop a fever or chills.”4. “It is normal to have a small amount of rectal bleeding after the test.”22. The nurse is working in the postanesthesia care unit caring for a 32-year-oldclient who has just arrived after undergoing dilation and curettage toevaluate infertility. Which assessment finding should be immediatelycommunicated to the surgeon?1. Blood pressure of 162/90 mm Hg2. Saturation of the perineal pad after the first 30 minutes3. Oxygen saturation of 91% to 95%4. Sharp, continuous, level 8 abdominal pain (on a scale of 0 to 10)23. When the nurse is developing the plan of care for a home health client whohas been discharged after a radical prostatectomy, which activities will bedelegated to the home health aide? Select all that apply.1. Monitoring the client for symptoms of urinary tract infection2. Helping the client to connect the catheter to the leg bag3. Checking the client's incision for appropriate wound healing4. Assisting the client in ambulating for increasing distances5. Helping the client shower at least every other day24. The nurse is working in the emergency department when a client withpossible toxic shock syndrome is admitted. Which prescribed interventionwill the nurse implement first?1. Remove the client's tampon.2. Obtain blood specimens for culture.3. Give acetaminophen 650 mg.4. Infuse nafcillin 1000 mg IV.25. Which information will the nurse include when teaching a group of 20-yearoldwomen about emergency contraception with levonorgestrel (themorning-after pill)? Select all that apply.1. Heavier menstrual bleeding is a common side effect of this medicationregimen.2. Emergency contraception requires a prescription from a licensed healthcare provider.3. Even if pregnancy occurs after using emergency contraception, risk forcomplications is low.3214. Because nausea and vomiting may occur, an antiemetic may be used beforelevonorgestrel.5. The medication must be taken within the first 24 hours after unprotectedintercourse to be effective.26. The clinic nurse reviews information about four clients who are requestingPap testing. Which client needs to be scheduled first?1. A 19-year-old client who first had intercourse at age 13 years2. A 25-year-old client who has never had a pelvic examination3. A 33-year-old client who had a normal Pap test 2 years previously4. A 67-year-old client who says her previous Pap test results have beennormal27. When assessing a client with cervical cancer who had a total abdominalhysterectomy yesterday, the nurse obtains the following data. Whichinformation has the most immediate implications for planning of the client'scare?1. Fine crackles are audible at the lung bases.2. The client's right calf is swollen, and she reports mild calf tenderness.3. The client uses the patient-controlled analgesia device every 30 minutes.4. Urine in the collection bag is amber and clear.28. The nurse is supervising a student nurse who is caring for a client who hasan intracavitary radioactive implant in place to treat cervical cancer. Whichaction by the student requires that the nurse intervene immediately?1. Standing next to the client for 5 minutes while assisting with her bath2. Asking the client how she feels about losing her childbearing ability3. Assisting the client to the bedside commode for a bowel movement4. Offering to get the client whatever she would like to eat or drink29. A client who had an abdominal hysterectomy 3 days ago reports burningwith urination. Her urine output during the previous shift was 210 mL, andher temperature is 101.3°F (38.5°C). Which of these actions prescribed by thehealth care provider will the nurse implement first?1. Insert a straight catheter as needed (PRN) for output of less than300 mL/8 hr.2. Administer acetaminophen 650 mg now and every 6 hours PRN.3. Send a urine specimen to the laboratory for culture and sensitivity testing.4. Administer ceftizoxime 1 g IV now and every 12 hours.30. An 86-year-old woman had an anterior and posterior colporrhaphy (A & Prepair) several days ago. Her retention catheter was removed 8 hours ago.Which assessment finding requires that the nurse act most rapidly?1. Her oral temperature is 100.7°F (38.2°C).2. Her abdomen is firm and tender to palpation above the symphysis pubis.3223. Her breath sounds are decreased, with fine crackles audible at both bases.4. Her apical pulse is 86 beats/min and slightly irregular.31. The nurse is reviewing medication lists for several clients. Which medicationis most important for the nurse to question?1. Testosterone transdermal gel for a client who has prostate cancer2. Metformin for a client whose only diagnosis is polycystic ovary syndrome3. Sildenafil for a client who is also taking hydrochlorothiazide forhypertension4. Methoprogesterone for a client who has infertility associated withendometriosis32. The nurse is providing orientation for a new RN on the medical-surgical unitwho is caring for a client with severe pelvic inflammatory disease (PID).Which action by the new RN is most important to correct quickly?1. Telling the client that she should avoid using tampons in the future2. Offering the client an ice pack to decrease her abdominal pain3. Positioning the client flat in bed while helping her take a bath4. Teaching the client that she should not have intercourse for 2 months33. Which information obtained when taking a client's health history will bemost important in determining whether the client should receive the humanpapillomavirus (HPV) immunization?1. Client is 19 years old.2. Client is sexually active.3. Client has a positive pregnancy test result.4. Client has tested positive for HPV previously.34. Three days after undergoing a pelvic exenteration procedure, a client reportsdizziness after experiencing a sudden “giving” sensation along herabdominal incision. The nurse finds that the wound edges are open, andloops of intestine are protruding. Which action should the nurse take first?1. Notify the surgeon that wound evisceration has occurred.2. Cover the wound with saline-soaked dressings.3. Use swabs to obtain aerobic and anaerobic wound cultures.4. Call for assistance from the Rapid Response Team (RRT).35. The nurse is working on a medical unit staffed with LPNs/LVNs andunlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) when a client with stage IV ovariancancer and recurrent ascites is admitted for paracentesis. Which activity isbest to assign to an experienced LPN/LVN?1. Obtaining a paracentesis tray from the central supply area2. Completing the short-stay client admission form3. Measuring vital signs every 15 minutes after the procedure3234. Providing discharge instructions after the procedure36. A new nurse who is assigned to care for a transgender client who has beenadmitted with pneumonia tells the charge nurse, “I do not feel comfortablecaring for this client.” Which action should the charge nurse take first?1. Teach the new nurse that culturally sensitive care for all clients is anexpectation for staff members.2. Change the new nurse's assignment for the day and arrange for moretraining about transgender health.3. Ask the new nurse to clarify the specific concerns about providingtreatment for a transgender client.4. Explain to the new nurse that the treatment for pneumonia will not beaffected by the client's transgender status.37. Which action by the nurse will best meet the goal of providing culturallycompetent care for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender clients?1. Direct transgender clients to the unisex bathrooms.2. Assure clients that they will all be treated the same way.3. Ask all clients about sexual orientation and gender identification.4. Develop forms that use gender-neutral terms to collect client information.38. While the nurse is working in the clinic, a healthy 32-year-old woman whosesister is a carrier of the BRCA gene asks which form of breast cancer screeningis the most effective for her. Which response is best?1. “An annual mammogram is usually sufficient screening for women yourage.”2. “Monthly self-breast examination is recommended because of your higherrisk.”3. “A yearly breast examination by a health care provider should bescheduled.”4. “Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is recommended in addition to annualmammography.”39. A client with toxic shock syndrome is to receive clindamycin 900 mg IV over60 minutes. The clindamycin is diluted in 100 mL of normal saline. The nursewill infuse ____________________mL/hr.324Answer Key1. Ans: 2 Because clinical manifestations of PID should be improving with 3days of effective antibiotic treatment, the client's ongoing pain indicates aneed for actions such as hospitalization for intravenous antibiotic therapy.Nausea is an adverse effect of many antibiotics, but the client will beinstructed to continue the medications. The client's feeling of shame shouldbe addressed by the nurse but is not the most important finding. BecauseNeisseria gonorrhoeae is a common cause of PID, all drug regimens that areused will be effective in treating gonorrhea (and Chlamydia trachomatis).Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 3 The most commonly prescribed oral contraceptives are combinationestrogen-progestin medications, but estrogen-containing oral contraceptivesare contraindicated for women who are older than 35 years and who smokebecause of the increased risk for thromboembolism. A progestin-only oralcontraceptive or an intrauterine device (IUD) may be prescribed for thisclient. Estrogen-containing contraceptives may stimulate fibroid growth andelevate blood pressure, but these are relative contraindications. It isrecommended that estrogen-containing contraceptives be discontinued a fewweeks before surgeries that might impair mobility and increase venousthromboembolism risk, but oral surgery will not affect mobility. Focus:Prioritization.3. Ans: 4 Raloxifene increases the risk for deep vein thrombosis and pulmonaryembolism, and the client should be evaluated further with an examination,possible venous ultrasonography, and coagulation studies. Hot flashes andnasal congestion are common side effects of raloxifene but are not reasons todiscontinue the medication. Raloxifene lowers myocardial infarction risk inwomen at high risk. Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 3 A palpable bladder and restlessness are indicators of urinary retention,which would require action (e.g., insertion of a catheter) to empty thebladder. The other data would be consistent with the client's diagnosis ofbenign prostatic hyperplasia. More detailed assessment may be indicated, butno immediate action is required. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 4 Irregularly shaped and nontender lumps are consistent with adiagnosis of breast cancer, so this client needs immediate referral fordiagnostic tests such as mammography or ultrasonography. The otherinformation is not unusual and does not indicate the need for immediateaction. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Remember to investigatefurther when a client has a nontender lump or swelling because lumps thatare not painful are a common clinical manifestation of cancer in areas such asthe breasts or lymph tissues. Pain is rarely an early manifestation of cancerbut occurs as tumors grow and place pressure on other organs or tissues.3256. Ans: 1 An LPN/LVN working in a postanesthesia care unit would beexpected to check dressings for bleeding and alert RN staff members ifbleeding occurs. The other tasks are more appropriate for nursing staff withRN-level education and licensure. Focus: Assignment.7. Ans: 2 Positioning the client's arm is a task within the scope of practice forUAP working on a surgical unit. Client teaching and assessment are RN-levelskills. The RN should reinforce dressings as necessary because this requiresassessment of the surgical site and possible communication with the surgeon.Focus: Delegation.8. Ans: 4 The bladder spasms may indicate that blood clots are obstructing thecatheter, which would indicate the need for irrigation of the catheter with 30to 50 mL of normal saline using a piston syringe. The other data would all benormal after a TURP, but the client may need some teaching about the usualpost-TURP symptoms and care. Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 4 Because tamsulosin blocks alpha receptors in the peripheral arterialsystem, the most significant side effects are orthostatic hypotension anddizziness. To avoid falls, it is important that the client change positionsslowly. The other information is also accurate and may be included in clientteaching but is not as important as decreasing the risk for falls. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: When any medication might lower bloodpressure, be aware that safety is a priority. Avoid risk for falls by teachingclients to change position slowly.10. Ans: 2 Hemorrhage is a major complication after TURP and should bereported to the surgeon immediately. The other assessment data also indicatea need for nursing action but not as urgently. Focus: Prioritization.11. Ans: 1 Reinforcement of previous teaching is an expected role of theLPN/LVN. Planning and implementing client initial teaching anddocumentation of a client's discharge assessment should be performed byexperienced RN staff members. Focus: Assignment.12. Ans: 4 It is important to assess oxygenation because the client's calftenderness and shortness of breath suggest a possible venousthromboembolism and pulmonary embolus, serious complications oftransurethral resection of the prostate. The other activities are appropriate butare not as high a priority as ensuring that oxygenation is adequate. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: You should rapidly investigate any clientreport of shortness of breath because oxygenation is the most basicphysiologic need.13. Ans: 1 This client has symptoms of testicular torsion, an emergency thatneeds immediate assessment and intervention because it can lead to testicularischemia and necrosis within a few hours. The other clients also havesymptoms of acute problems (primary syphilis, acute bacterial prostatitis,and prostatic hyperplasia with urinary retention), which need rapidassessment and intervention, but these are not as urgent as the possible326testicular torsion. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 4 Painless vaginal bleeding in postmenopausal women may indicateendometrial or cervical cancer and will require diagnostic testing such asendometrial biopsy. Breast atrophy, vaginal dryness and painful intercourse,and hot flashes are common after menopause, although these symptomsshould also be discussed with the HCP and may need treatment. Focus:Prioritization.15. Ans: 3 Current guidelines state that there is no effective screening tool forlow-risk women, but women who are high risk because of family history orthe BRCA genes may be screened with transvaginal ultrasonography andserum marker CA-125 levels. The other statements are accurate but do notrespond as well to the client's concern. Focus: Prioritization.16. Ans: 2, 1, 3, 4 Bladder spasms after a TURP are usually caused by thepresence of clots that obstruct the catheter, so irrigation should be the firstaction taken. Administration of analgesics may help to reduce spasm.Administration of a bolus of IV fluids is commonly used in the immediatepostoperative period to help maintain fluid intake and increase urinary flow.Oral fluid intake should be encouraged when the nurse is sure that the clientis not nauseated and has adequate bowel tone. Focus: Prioritization.17. Ans: 3 Sildenafil is a potent vasodilator and has caused cardiac arrest inclients who were also taking nitrates such as nitroglycerin. The other clientdata indicate the need for further assessment or teaching, but it is essential forthe client who uses nitrates to avoid concurrent use of sildenafil. Focus:Prioritization.18. Ans: 2 Administration of narcotics and the associated client monitoring areincluded in LPN/LVN education and scope of practice. Assessments andteaching are more complex skills that require RN-level education and are bestaccomplished by an RN with experience in caring for clients with thisdiagnosis. Focus: Assignment.19. Ans: 3 An RN from the emergency department would be experienced inassessment and management of pain. Because of their diagnoses andtreatments, the other clients should be assigned to RNs who are experiencedin caring for clients with cancer. Focus: Assignment; Test Taking Tip: Whenmaking assignments for nurses who have floated to a specialty area, it is bestto assign the float nurse to clients who require actions that are commonlyused in many areas of nursing, such as administration of analgesics, dressingchanges, and fluid infusions.20. Ans: 4, 3, 2, 1 The bilateral orchiectomy client needs immediate assessmentbecause confusion may be an indicator of serious postoperative complicationssuch as hemorrhage, infection, or pulmonary embolism. The client who had aperineal prostatectomy should be assessed next because pain medication maybe needed to allow him to perform essential postoperative activities such asdeep breathing, coughing, and ambulating. The vaginal hysterectomy client's327anxiety needs further assessment next. Although the breast implant client hasquestions about care of the drains at the surgical site, there is nothing in thereport indicating that these need to be addressed immediately. Focus:Prioritization.21. Ans: 3 Although infection occurs only rarely as a complication of transrectalprostate biopsy, it is important that the client receive teaching about checkinghis temperature and calling the HCP if there is any fever or other signs ofsystemic infection. The client should understand that the test results will notbe available immediately but that he will be notified about the results.Transient rectal bleeding may occur after the biopsy, but bleeding that lastsfor more than a few hours indicates that there may have been rectal trauma.Focus: Prioritization.22. Ans: 4 Cramping or aching abdominal pain is common after dilation andcurettage; however, sharp, continuous pain may indicate uterine perforation,which would require rapid intervention by the surgeon. The other dataindicate a need for ongoing assessment or interventions. Transient bloodpressure elevation may occur because of the stress response after surgery.Bleeding after the procedure is expected but should decrease over the first 2hours. Although the oxygen saturation is not at an unsafe level, interventionsto improve the saturation should be carried out. Focus: Prioritization.23. Ans: 2, 4, 5 Assisting with catheter care, ambulation, and hygiene areincluded in home health aide education and would be expected activities forthis staff member. Client assessments are the responsibility of RN members ofthe home health care team. Focus: Delegation.24. Ans: 1 Because the most likely source of the bacteria causing the toxic shocksyndrome is the client's tampon, it is essential to remove it first. The otheractions should be implemented in the following order: obtain blood culturesamples (best done before initiating antibiotic therapy to ensure accurateculture and sensitivity results), infuse nafcillin (rapid initiation of antibiotictherapy will decrease bacterial release of toxins), and administeracetaminophen (fever reduction may be necessary, but treating the infectionhas the highest priority). Focus: Prioritization.25. Ans: 1, 3, 4 Emergency contraception with levonorgestrel (Plan B) may causeheavy menstrual bleeding and nausea with vomiting. Risk for pregnancycomplications is not increased. The medication is most effective if takenwithin 72 hours, but it can be used up to 5 days after unprotected intercourse.Levonorgestrel does not need a prescription when used for emergencycontraception by clients age 17 years or older. Focus: Prioritization.26. Ans: 2 Current guidelines indicate that Pap testing should be started at age21 years, regardless of when a woman has become sexually active. The 19-year-old client should be counseled that there is an increased risk for cervicalcancer associated with sexual activity before age 17 years and encouraged toschedule Pap testing, human papillomavirus testing, or both at age 21 years.328The 33-year-old client will need screening every 3 years, and the 67-year-oldwill not need further Pap screening if she has had several normal Pap testresults within the past 2 to 3 years. Focus: Prioritization.27. Ans: 2 Right calf swelling and tenderness indicate the possible presence ofdeep vein thrombosis. This will change the plan of care because the clientmay be placed on bed rest and will require diagnostic testing and possibleanticoagulant therapy. The other data indicate the need for commonpostoperative nursing actions such as having the client cough, assessing herpain, and increasing her fluid intake. Focus: Prioritization.28. Ans: 3 Clients with intracavitary implants are kept in bed during thetreatment to avoid dislodgement of the implant. The other actions may alsorequire the nurse to intervene by providing guidance to the student. Minimaltime should be spent close to clients who are receiving internal irradiation.Asking the client about her reaction to losing childbearing abilities may beinappropriate at this time. Clients are frequently placed on low-residue dietsto decrease bowel distention while implants are in place. Focus:Prioritization.29. Ans: 1 The client has symptoms of a urinary tract infection. Inserting astraight catheter will enable the nurse to obtain an uncontaminated urinespecimen for culture and sensitivity testing before the antibiotic is started. Inaddition, the client is probably not emptying her bladder fully because of thepainful urination. The antibiotic therapy should be initiated as rapidly aspossible after the urine specimen is obtained. Administration ofacetaminophen is the lowest priority because the client's temperature is notdangerously elevated. Focus: Prioritization.30. Ans: 2 After an A & P repair, it is essential that the bladder be empty toavoid putting pressure on the suture lines. The abdominal firmness andtenderness indicate that the client's bladder is distended. The health careprovider should be notified and an order for catheterization obtained. Theother data also indicate a need for further assessment of her cardiac statusand actions such as having the client cough and deep breathe, but these arenot such immediate concerns. Focus: Prioritization.31. Ans: 1 Testosterone is contraindicated in clients who have prostate cancerbecause it can promote growth of prostate cancer. Although metformin ismost commonly prescribed for type 2 diabetes, it can be helpful in restoringovulation in clients with polycystic ovary syndrome. Sildenafil lowers bloodpressure and should not be used by clients who are taking nitrates or alphaadrenergicblockers but may be used in clients taking otherantihypertensives. Progestin therapy alone will not treat infertility caused byendometriosis but may be used to shrink endometrial tissue. Focus:Prioritization.32. Ans: 3 The client should be positioned in a semi-Fowler position to decreasepain and minimize the risk of abscess development higher in the abdomen.329The other actions also require correction but not as rapidly. Tampon use isnot contraindicated after an episode of PID, although some sourcesrecommend not using tampons during the acute infection. Heat applicationto the abdomen and pelvis is used for pain relief. Intercourse is safe a fewweeks after effective treatment for PID. Focus: Prioritization.33. Ans: 3 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines indicate thatthe HPV immunization should not be given during pregnancy. Ideally, theimmunization series should start at age 11 or 12 years for girls and boys, butit may be started up through age 26 years. HPV immunization is mosteffective in preventing HPV infection and cervical cancer when it is startedbefore the individual is sexually active and before any HPV infection, butthese are not contraindications for vaccination. Focus: Prioritization.34. Ans: 2 The initial action should be to ensure that the abdominal contentsremain moist by covering the wound and loops of intestine with dressingssoaked with sterile normal saline. Because national guidelines addressing theuse of RRTs indicate that the role of the RRT is immediate assessment andstabilization of the client, the nurse's next action should be to activate theRRT. The surgeon should be notified after further assessments of the client(e.g., pulse and blood pressure) are obtained. Wound cultures may beobtained, but protection of the wound, further assessment of the client, andthen notification of the surgeon so that other actions can be taken are thepriority. Focus: Prioritization.35. Ans: 3 LPN/LVN education includes vital sign monitoring after proceduressuch as paracentesis; an experienced LPN/LVN would recognize and reportsignificant changes in vital signs to the RN. The paracentesis tray could beobtained by a UAP. Client admission assessment and teaching require RNleveleducation and experience, although part of the data gathering may bedone by an LPN/LVN. Focus: Assignment.36. Ans: 3 The initial response by the charge nurse should be assessment of thenew nurse's concerns about caring for this client. Acknowledging the newnurse's concerns will be more effective than mandating culturally sensitivecare. Changing the assignment and arranging training may be appropriate,but more information about the new nurse's anxieties is needed first.Treatment for pneumonia will not be different for a transgender client, but itis important that the client's care is provided in a nonjudgmental manner.Focus: Prioritization.37. Ans: 4 The Joint Commission suggests that forms should use inclusive andgender-neutral language to allow for client self-identification. Unisex orsingle-stall bathrooms should be provided, but transgender clients shouldalso be able to use bathrooms consistent with their gender identity. Treatingall clients the same fails to acknowledge that sexual orientation and genderidentity may have an impact on health care needs. The nurse should bereceptive of information about client sexual orientation and gender identity,but self-identification should be at the client's chosen time. Focus:330Prioritization.38. Ans: 4 The current guidelines, supported by nonrandomized screening trialsand observational data, call for first-degree relatives of clients with the BRCAgene to be screened with both annual mammography and MRI. Althoughannual mammography, breast self-examination, and clinical breastexamination by a health care provider may help to detect cancer, the bestoption for this client is annual mammography and MRI. Focus: Prioritization.39. Ans: 100 To infuse 100 mL over 60 minutes, the nurse will need to set theinfusion pump to give 100 mL/hr. Focus: Prioritization.331C H A P T E R 1 8332Problems in Pregnancy andChildbearing333Questions1. A 30-year-old woman with type 1 diabetes mellitus comes to the clinic forpreconception care. What is the priority education for her at this time?1. Her insulin requirements will likely increase during the second and thirdtrimesters of pregnancy.2. Infants of mothers with diabetes can be macrosomic, which can result inmore difficult delivery and higher likelihood of cesarean section.3. Breast feeding is highly recommended, and insulin use is not acontraindication.4. Achievement of optimal glycemic control at this time is of utmostimportance in preventing congenital anomalies.2. Which task could be appropriately delegated to the unlicensed assistivepersonnel (UAP) working with the nurse at the obstetric clinic?1. Checking the blood pressure of a patient who is 36 weeks’ pregnant andreports a headache2. Removing the adhesive skin closure strips of a patient who had a cesareansection 2 weeks ago3. Giving community resource information and emergency numbers to aprenatal patient who may be experiencing domestic violence4. Dispensing a breast pump with instruction to a lactating patient havingtrouble with milk supply 4 weeks postpartum3. Several patients have just come into the obstetric triage unit. Which patientshould the nurse assess first?1. A 17-year-old gravida 1, para 0 (G1P0) woman at 40 weeks’ gestation withcontractions every 6 minutes who is crying loudly and is surrounded byanxious family members2. A 22-year-old G3P2 woman at 38 weeks’ gestation with contractions every3 minutes who is requesting to go to the bathroom to have a bowelmovement3. A 32-year-old G4P3 woman at 27 weeks’ gestation who noted vaginalbleeding today after intercourse4. A 27-year-old G2P1 woman at 37 weeks’ gestation who experiencedspontaneous rupture of membranes 30 minutes ago but feels nocontractions4. A 19-year-old gravida 1, para 0 patient at 40 weeks’ gestation who is in laboris being treated with magnesium sulfate for seizure prophylaxis inpreeclampsia. Which are priority assessments with this medication? Selectall that apply.1. Check deep tendon reflexes.3342. Observe for vaginal bleeding.3. Check the respiratory rate.4. Note the urine output.5. Monitor for calf pain.5. Which action would best demonstrate evidence-based nursing practice in thecare of a patient who is 1 day postpartum and reporting nipple sorenesswhile breast feeding?1. Give the baby a bottle after 5 minutes of nursing to allow soreness toresolve.2. Assess the mother–baby couplet for nursing position and latch and correctas indicated.3. Advise the use of a breast pump until nipple soreness resolves.4. Advise alternating breast and bottle feedings to avoid excess sucking at thenipple.6. A 24-year-old gravida 2, para 1 woman is being admitted in active labor at 39weeks’ gestation. What prenatal data would be most important for the nurseto address at this time?1. Hemoglobin level of 11 g/dL (110 g/L) at 28 weeks’ gestation2. Positive result on test for group B streptococci at 36 weeks’ gestation3. Urinary tract infection with Escherichia coli treated at 20 weeks’ gestation4. Elevated level on glucose screening test at 28 weeks’ gestation followed bynormal 3-hour glucose tolerance test results at 29 weeks’ gestation7. The telephone triage nurse in the prenatal clinic receives the following calls.Which telephone call would require immediate notification of the health careprovider?1. Patient reports leaking vaginal fluid at 34 weeks’ gestation.2. Patient reports nausea and vomiting at 8 weeks’ gestation.3. Patient reports pedal edema at 39 weeks’ gestation.4. Patient reports vaginal itching at 20 weeks’ gestation.8. The nurse in the labor and delivery unit is caring for a 25-year-old gravida 3,para 2 patient in active labor. The nurse has identified late fetal heartdecelerations and decreased variability in the fetal heart rate and notified thehealth care provider (HCP) on call, who thinks that the pattern is acceptable.What would be the priority action at this time?1. Advise the patient that a different HCP will be called because the firstHCP's response was not adequate.2. Discuss the concerns with another labor and delivery nurse.3. Document the conversation with the HCP accurately, including the HCP'sinterpretation and recommendation, and continue close observation of thefetal heart rate.3354. Go up the chain of command and communicate the assessment of the fetalheart rate findings clearly to the next appropriate HCP.9. What would be the appropriate first nursing action when caring for a 20-year-old gravida 1, para 0 woman at 39 weeks’ gestation who is in activelabor and for whom an assessment reveals mild variable fetal heart ratedecelerations?1. Change the maternal position.2. Notify the provider.3. Prepare for delivery.4. Readjust the fetal monitor.10. A 24-year-old gravida 1, para 0 patient, who is receiving oxytocin, is in laborat 41 weeks gestation. Which are appropriate nursing actions in the presenceof late fetal heart rate decelerations? Select all that apply.1. Discontinue the oxytocin.2. Decrease the maintenance IV fluid rate.3. Administer oxygen to the mother by mask.4. Place the woman in high Fowler position.5. Notify the health care provider.11. A pregnant woman at 12 weeks’ gestation tells the nurse that she is avegetarian. What would be the first appropriate nursing action?1. Recommend vitamin B12 and iron supplementation.2. Recommend consumption of protein drinks daily.3. Obtain a 24-hour diet recall history.4. Determine the reason for her vegetarian diet.12. A 26-year-old gravida 1, para 1 patient who underwent cesarean section 24hours ago tells the nurse that she is having some trouble breast feeding.Which tasks could be appropriately delegated to the unlicensed assistivepersonnel (UAP) on the postpartum floor? Select all that apply.1. Providing the mother with an ordered abdominal binder2. Assisting the mother with breast feeding3. Taking the mother's vital signs4. Checking the amount of lochia present5. Assisting the mother with ambulation13. Which action by a newly graduated RN during a delivery complicated byshoulder dystocia would require immediate correction by the nurse who isorienting her?1. Applying fundal pressure2. Applying suprapubic pressure3. Requesting immediate presence of the neonatologist3364. Flexing the maternal legs back across the maternal abdomen14. Which statements by a new father indicate that additional dischargeteaching is needed for this family, who had their first baby 24 hours ago?Select all that apply.1. “We have a crib ready for our baby with lots of stuffed animals and twoquilts that my mother made.”2. “My wife wants to receive the flu shot before she goes home.”3. “We will bring our baby to the pediatrician in 3 weeks.”4. “I will give the baby formula at night so my wife can rest. She will breastfeed in the daytime.”5. “We will always put our baby to sleep in a face-up position.”15. The charge nurse in the labor and delivery unit needs to assign two patientsto one of the RNs because of a staffing shortage. Normally the unit has nursepatientratio of 1:1. Which two patients should the charge nurse assign to theRN?1. A 30-year-old gravida 1, para 0 (G1P0) woman, 40 weeks, 2 cm/90%effaced/–1 station2. A 25-year-old G3P2 woman, 38 weeks, 8 cm/100% effaced/0 station3. A 26-year-old G1P1 woman who delivered via normal vaginal delivery 15minutes ago4. A 17-year-old G1P0 woman with premature rupture of membranes, nolabor at 35 weeks5. A 40-year-old G6P5 woman with contractions at 28 weeks who has not yetbeen evaluated by the health care provider_____, _____16. While assessing a 29-year-old gravida 2, para 2 patient who had a normalspontaneous vaginal delivery 30 minutes ago, the nurse notes a large amountof red vaginal bleeding. What would be the first priority nursing action?1. Check vital signs.2. Notify the health care provider.3. Firmly massage the uterine fundus.4. Put the baby to breast.17. A 30-year-old gravida 1, para 0 woman at 39 weeks’ gestation experienced afetal demise and has just delivered a female infant. Her husband is at thebedside. Which are appropriate nursing actions at this time? Select all thatapply.1. Offer the option of autopsy to the parents.2. Stay with the parents and offer supportive care.3. Place the infant on the maternal abdomen.4. Clean and wrap the baby and offer the infant to the parents to view or hold337when desired.5. Ask the parents if there are any special rituals in their religion or culture fora baby who has died that they would like to have done.18. A 27-year-old patient underwent a primary cesarean section because ofbreech presentation 24 hours ago. Which assessment finding would be of themost concern?1. Small amount of lochia rubra2. Temperature of 99°F (37.2°C)3. Slight redness of the left calf4. Pain rated as 3 of 10 in the incisional area19. A 22-year-old gravida 1, para 0 woman is being given an epidural anestheticfor pain control during labor and birth. Which are appropriate nursingactions when epidural anesthesia is used during labor? Select all that apply.1. Request the anesthesiologist to discontinue the epidural anesthetic whenthe patient's cervix is completely dilated to allow the patient to sense theurge to push.2. Insert an indwelling catheter because the woman is likely to be unable tovoid.3. Encourage pushing efforts when the cervix is completely dilated in theabsence of an urge to push.4. Encourage the patient to turn from side to side during the course of labor.5. Teach the patient that pain relief can be expected to last 1 to 2 hours.20. A 36-year-old gravida 1, para 0 patient has received an epidural anesthetic.Her cervix is 6 cm dilated. Her blood pressure is currently 60/38 mm Hg.Which would be appropriate priority nursing actions? Select all that apply.1. Place the patient in high Fowler position.2. Turn the patient to a lateral position.3. Notify the anesthesiologist.4. Prepare for emergency cesarean section.5. Decrease the IV fluid rate.21. A 17-year-old gravida 1, para 0 woman at 40 weeks’ gestation is in labor. Shehas chosen natural childbirth with assistance from a doula. Her mother andher boyfriend are at the bedside. What nursing action can help the patientachieve her goal of an unmedicated labor and birth?1. Encourage the patient to stay in bed.2. Allow the patient's support people to provide labor support and minimizenursing presence.3. Assess the effectiveness of the labor support team and offer suggestions asindicated.4. Offer pain medication on a regular basis so the patient knows it is available338if desired.22. A 25-year-old gravida 2, para 1 patient has come to the obstetric triage roomat 32 weeks’ gestation reporting painless vaginal bleeding. The nurse isproviding orientation for a new RN on the unit. Which statement by the newRN to the patient would require the nurse to promptly intervene?1. “I’m going to check your vital signs.”2. “I’m going to apply a fetal monitor to check the baby's heart rate and to seeif you are having contractions.”3. “I’m going to perform a vaginal examination to see if your cervix isdilated.”4. “I’m going to feel your abdomen to check the position of the baby.”23. A 30-year-old gravida 6, para 5 woman at 12 weeks’ gestation has just begunprenatal care, and her initial laboratory work reveals that she has testedpositive for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. What would bepriority evidence-based nursing education for this patient today?1. Medication for HIV infection is safe and can greatly reduce transmission ofHIV to the infant.2. Breast feeding is still recommended due to the great benefits to the infant.3. Pregnancy is known to accelerate the course of HIV disease in the mother.4. Cesarean section is not recommended because of the increased risk of HIVtransmission with the bleeding at surgery.24. A 22-year-old woman is 6 weeks postpartum. In the clinic, she admits tocrying every day, feeling overwhelmed, and sometimes thinking that shemay hurt the baby. What would be the priority nursing action at this time?1. Advise the patient of community resources, parent groups, and depressionhotlines.2. Counsel the mother that the “baby blues” are common at this time andassess her nutrition, rest, and availability of help at home.3. Contact the health care provider to evaluate the patient before allowing herto leave the clinic.4. Advise the woman that she cannot use medication for depression becauseshe is breast feeding.25. A 23-year-old gravida 1, para 0 patient at 10 weeks’ gestation states that sheexercises 5 days a week. The nurse has discussed exercise in pregnancy withher. Which statement by the patient indicates that more teaching of evidencebasedprinciples is needed?1. “I will continue to exercise 5 days a week.”2. “I will reduce my exercise at this time in my pregnancy to reduce the risk ofmiscarriage but will increase it in the second trimester.”3. “I will drink more fluid before and after exercising.”4. “I will stop playing football while I am pregnant.”33926. A 3-day-old breast-fed infant is brought to the clinic by his parents forroutine assessment following a normal full-term delivery withoutcomplications. Which statement by the parents suggests an abnormal findingon a newborn of this age?1. “The baby urinated only three times yesterday.”2. “The bowel movement of the baby was dark at first, but yesterday it wasgreenish yellow.”3. “The baby cried for 2 hours last night.”4. “The baby ate four times in the past 24 hours.”27. A full-term newborn is at the clinic with his parents. He is 4 days old. Hisbirth weight was 7 lb (3.2 kg). Which assessment made by the RN is mostsignificant?1. The infant's weight today is 6 lb 9 oz (3 kg).2. The infant's skin is peeling.3. The infant's breast tissue is swollen.4. There is a yellow discharge from the infant's right eye.28. The nurse has received orders to initiate phototherapy on a 36-hour-oldnewborn with an elevated bilirubin level. What instructions should the nursegive the student nurse who is assisting in the care of the infant? Select all thatapply.1. Cover the infant's eyes with a mask.2. Monitor the infant's temperature closely.3. Keep the infant NPO during the treatment.4. Apply ointment to the infant's skin before light exposure.5. Offer the infant sterile water feedings during the treatment.29. A patient in the obstetric clinic is at 8 weeks’ gestation. She tells the nurse ofher plans to travel next month to visit family in a country that is affected bythe Zika virus. What is the priority counseling by the nurse today?1. It is recommended that a patient not travel to a country impacted by Zika.The Zika virus has been linked to a very serious birth defect calledmicrocephaly.2. It is recommended that long sleeved shirts and long pants be always wornwhile there and that mosquito repellent be applied because mosquitoscarry the virus.3. It is recommended that mosquito repellent containing DEET be avoidedbecause it is hazardous in pregnancy.4. It is recommended that family members from the Zika impacted countrynot travel to visit the patient because they may carry the Zika virus.30. A female same-sex couple is being seen in the clinic today. They inform thenurse that they are planning a pregnancy and plan to use donor sperm to beinseminated into one of the women. What is the priority education at this340time?1. Refer the couple to another health center specializing in same-sex issuesand explain that you do not have the expertise to deal with their issues.2. Review all preconception education issues, including vaccines, diet, folicacid use, avoidance of alcohol and medications, and the importance ofphysical and mental health prior to pregnancy.3. Ask the couple if they have considered the effects on a child of havingsame-sex parents.4. Inform them that donor sperm carry an increased risk of infection andchromosomal disorders.31. A same-sex couple are in the delivery room, and a healthy baby boy has justbeen born to one of the women. She breast fed the baby with a good latch,and now the baby has fallen asleep. She tells the nurse that both she and herpartner are planning to breast feed the baby. What should the nurse do next?1. Wake the baby and help the baby to latch on to the other woman's breasts.Alternate the baby between the two women for nursing.2. Inquire as to what preparation the partner has done for breast feeding. Lether know you will work with their plan while also assuring adequateintake for the baby.3. Explain that the baby must first suck 20 minutes on each of the birthmother's breasts and then can be placed on the other mother's breasts.4. Suggest that the birth mother breast-feed the infant and the partnersupplement the baby with formula.32. The nurse on the locked postpartum unit observes another nurse with moreexperience open the door for a middle-aged woman without a visitor badgeand then go to lunch. The nurse observes the woman wandering in the hall.In what order should the following actions be performed?1. Find the nurse who let the woman in and question her about why she didthat and see if she knows the woman.2. Ask the supervisor to clarify the access policies for the postpartum unit toall staff.3. Go up to the woman and ask if you can help her. Confirm with her whichpatient she is visiting and request that she get a visitor pass.4. Ask the unit desk secretary to closely monitor the infant security system._____, _____, _____, _____33. A patient in labor had a positive QuantiFERON-TB gold tuberculosis (TB)test during pregnancy. A chest x-ray examination was done and showed noactive TB in the lungs. How should the nurse care for this patient during thematernity stay?1. Isolate the mother, initiate droplet precautions, separate the mother andbaby, and do not allow breast feeding at this time.2. The mother and infant can room together in isolation from the other341maternity patients, and breast feeding should be encouraged.3. The patient requires no isolation procedures at this time and should beencouraged to breast feed. The patient should be encouraged to follow uppostpartum for possible initiation of medication for latent TB treatment.4. Place a face mask on the mother while transporting her outside her room.Isolate her from the baby but encourage her to pump milk, which can befed to the baby by a healthy family member.34. The charge nurse is orienting a new nurse on the postpartum floor. Whataction by the new nurse would require intervention by the charge nurse?1. Telling a patient with active varicella that she may breast-feed her newborn2. Telling a patient with active varicella that she should pump her milk and ahealthy family member may feed her milk to the infant3. Telling a patient with active varicella that other family members should bevaccinated against varicella4. Telling a patient with active varicella that she must wear a face mask whenbeing transported from her room35. The health care provider has ordered a flu vaccine for a patient in theprenatal clinic. As the nurse prepares to give it, the patient states she does notwant the vaccine as she never gets it and never had the flu. How can thenurse best respond to the patient?1. Respect the patient's preference and offer education on how to avoidgetting the flu by good hand washing, good nutrition, and adequate rest.2. Inform the patient that changes in the heart, lungs, and immune system inpregnancy puts her in a higher risk group for complications of flu and thatthe flu in pregnancy is also associated with pregnancy complications suchas premature delivery.3. Inform the patient that it is acceptable to defer the vaccine until thepostpartum period if she is worried about vaccine's effects in pregnancy.4. Explain that the vaccine is mandatory in pregnancy.36. The postpartum nurse has just taken report from the night nurse. Place thefollowing patients in the order in which they should be seen by the oncomingnurse.1. A 32-year-old woman gravida 1, para 1 (G1P1) day 2 after normalspontaneous vaginal delivery who is tearful because the baby has been upall night crying and not nursing well2. A 22-year-old G3P3 6 hours after normal spontaneous vaginal delivery whohas expressed a wish to speak with a social worker about giving up herbaby for adoption3. A 16-year-old G1P1 day one postpartum with blood pressure of 160/90 mmHg who is complaining of a headache4. A 26-year-old G2P2 day 1 after cesarean section with temperature of100.5°F (38.1°C)342_____, _____, _____, _____37. A patient who was recently diagnosed with influenza is in labor. She hasbeen placed on droplet precautions. The student nurse who has beenassigned to work with her has given the following information to the patientand her family. Which of the following instructions would require the nurseto intervene with further explanation? Select all that apply.1. “I will be wearing gowns and gloves and masks as we care for you today.”2. “I will be putting on a mask as I care for you today.”3. “Any visitors to the room will be offered a mask to wear.”4. “I will be moving you to a negative pressure room to prevent the spread ofinfluenza.”5. “You must wear a mask when you are outside of your room.”6. “Droplets of your breast milk will be infectious at this time, so you willneed to pump and dump your milk after delivery.”38. The patient is 32 weeks pregnant with a diagnosis of complete placentaprevia and is experiencing heavy vaginal bleeding. The plan of care isimmediate blood transfusion and emergency cesarean section. The patienttells the nurse that she does not want the blood transfusion because she isconcerned about getting hepatitis from it. Her husband shares this concern,and the couple is declining the transfusion. How should the nurse proceed?1. Allow the patient to decline the blood transfusion, move her quickly to theoperating room to prepare for emergent cesarean section, and inform theobstetrician that the patient has declined.2. Quickly inform the patient that the blood transfusion is mandatory becauseof the amount of bleeding she is experiencing. State that there is virtuallyno risk of bloodborne infection.3. Speak quickly and intently to the couple while moving to the operatingroom. Collaborate with the obstetrician to quickly counsel the couple aboutthe risk-to-benefit ratio she is facing.4. Call the blood bank and request that they come to the bedside and outlinethe risks and benefits of blood transfusion in this case before the surgery isallowed to start.39. There are four patients on the busy labor and delivery unit undergoinginduction of labor with oxytocin. The nurse supervisor for the unit isreviewing the patients. Which patient situation would require thesupervising nurse to alert the bedside nurse to take immediate action?1. A patient with contractions every 10 minutes with a fetal heart rate of 150beats/min.2. A patient with contractions every 1 ½ minutes with a fetal heart rate of 140beats/min.3. A patient with contractions every 5 minutes with a fetal heart rate of 130beats/min who is moaning and crying.3434. A patient with contractions every 6 minutes who is leaking clear amnioticfluid with a fetal heart rate of 150 beats/min.40. A patient on the postpartum unit tells the nurse she is so happy that her 3-year-old son will visit today and get to meet the new baby. She mentions thatthe toddler has been sick with vomiting and diarrhea that was going aroundhis day-care center. How should the nurse respond?1. “Your toddler will need extra love and hugs during his visit because he hasbeen sick.”2. “I am very sorry, but because of the toddler's illness, he cannot visit youbecause of the risk of spreading the virus to you, the baby, and othervulnerable mothers and babies on the unit. We will set up another way foryou to interact with your toddler today.”3. “Because of your toddler's illness, you should pump your milk and discardit for 24 hours because of the risk of transmission of the virus to thenewborn.”4. “Because of your exposure to the virus, you should wear a mask, gown,and gloves when holding your newborn today.”344Answer Key1. Ans: 4 The incidence of congenital anomalies is three times higher in theoffspring of women with diabetes. Good glycemic control duringpreconception and early pregnancy significantly reduces this risk and wouldbe the highest priority message to this patient at this point. The otherresponses are correct but are not of greatest importance at this time. Focus:Prioritization.2. Ans: 1 The UAP can check the blood pressure of this patient and report it tothe RN. The RN would include this information in her full assessment of thepatient, who may be showing signs of preeclampsia. The other tasks listedrequire nursing assessment, analysis, and planning and should be performedby the RN. Provision of accurate and supportive education about breastfeeding and breast pumping supports the Perinatal Core Measure ofincreasing the percentage of women who exclusively breast-feed. Focus:Delegation.3. Ans: 2 A multiparous patient in active labor with an urge to have a bowelmovement will probably give birth imminently. She needs to be the firstassessed, the health care provider must be notified immediately, and shemust be moved to a safe location for the birth. She should not be allowed upto the bathroom at this time. The other patients all have needs requiringprompt assessment, but the imminent birth takes priority. Vaginal bleedingafter intercourse could be caused by cervical irritation or a vaginal infectionor could have a more serious cause such as placenta previa. This patientshould be the second one assessed. Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 1, 3, 4 Magnesium sulfate toxicity can cause fatal cardiovascular eventsor respiratory depression or arrest, so monitoring of respiratory rate is ofutmost importance. The drug is excreted by the kidneys, and thereforemonitoring for adequate urine output is essential. Deep tendon reflexesdisappear when serum magnesium is reaching a toxic level. Vaginal bleedingis not associated with magnesium sulfate use. Calf pain can be a sign of adeep vein thrombosis but is not associated with magnesium sulfate therapy.Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 2 It is recommended to avoid artificial nipples and pacifiers whileestablishing breast feeding unless medically indicated. Improper latch andposition are common causes of nipple soreness and can be corrected withassessment and assistance to the mother. This practice supports the PerinatalCore Measure of increasing the percentage of newborns who are fed breastmilk only. Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 2 The positive group B streptococci result requires immediate action.The health care provider must be notified and orders obtained for promptantibiotic prophylaxis during labor to reduce the risk of mother-to-newborn345transmission of group B streptococci. The other data are not as significant inthe care of the patient at this moment. Intrapartum-appropriate antibiotictreatment of the mother with group B streptococci supports the PerinatalCore Measure of reducing health care–acquired bloodstream infections innewborns. Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 1 Leaking vaginal fluid at 34 weeks’ gestation requires immediateattention because it could indicate premature rupture of membranes with therisk of premature birth. An RN in a prenatal clinic can safely give telephoneadvice regarding nausea, vomiting, and pedal edema, which can beconsidered normal in pregnancy. The RN would assess the complaint, givethe patient evidence-based advice, and define the circumstances under whichthe patient should call back. Vaginal itching at 20 weeks could be a yeastinfection. Depending on clinic protocols, the RN could, after phoneassessment, safely recommend an over-the-counter medication or arrange anoffice visit for the patient. Focus: Prioritization.8. Ans: 4 The RN must follow through on the findings of a nonreassuring fetalheart rate. When patient safety is concerned, the nurse is obligated to pursuean appropriate response. Documenting the conversation with the HCP anddiscussing it with a colleague are appropriate, but something must be done toaddress the immediate safety concern and possible need for intervention atthis time. The RN must persist until the safety concern has been addressedappropriately. Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 1 The cause of variable fetal heart decelerations is compression of theumbilical cord, which can often be corrected by a change in maternalposition. Focus: Prioritization.10. Ans: 1, 3, 5 Late fetal heart rate decelerations can be an ominous sign of fetalhypoxemia, especially if repetitive and accompanied by decreased variability.Notification of the health care provider is indicated. Turning off the oxytocinand administering oxygen to the mother are recommended nursinginterventions to improve fetal oxygenation. An increase in the IV rate canimprove hydration, correct hypovolemia, and increase blood flow to theuterus. Putting the woman in a lateral position can increase blood flow to theuterus and increase oxygenation to the fetus. Promptly addressing fetal heartrate changes may allow intrauterine resuscitation and may decrease the needfor cesarean section if those measures are effective. This supports thePerinatal Core Measure of reducing of cesarean section rates. Focus:Prioritization.11. Ans: 3 The care of a vegetarian woman who is pregnant should begin withassessment of her diet, because vegetarian practices vary widely. The RNmust first assess exactly what the woman's diet consists of and thendetermine any deficiencies. The reason for the diet is less important thanwhat the diet actually contains. It is probable that the woman will need avitamin B12 supplement, but the assessment comes first. Vegetarian diets canbe completely adequate in protein, and therefore protein supplementation is346not routinely recommended. Focus: Prioritization.12. Ans: 1, 3, 5 The UAP could provide an abdominal binder, measure the vitalsigns of the patient, and assist her to ambulate. The RN would be responsiblefor evaluating the normality of the vital sign values. The UAP should begiven parameter limits for vital signs and told to report values outside theselimits to the RN. Assisting in breast feeding for a first-time mother is a veryimportant nursing function because the RN needs to give consistent,evidence-based advice to enhance success at breast feeding. A commoncomplaint of postpartum patients is inconsistent help with and advice onbreast feeding. The RN should also be the one to check the amount of lochiabecause the evaluation requires nursing judgment. The use of theprofessionally educated RN to provide evidence-based and consistentinformation and assistance with breast feeding supports the Perinatal CoreMeasure of increasing the percentage of newborns who are fed breast milkonly. Focus: Delegation.13. Ans: 1 Fundal pressure should never be applied in a case of shoulderdystocia because it may worsen the problem by impacting the fetal shouldereven more firmly into the symphysis pubis. This issue of patient safety wouldrequire the supervising RN to intervene immediately. The other responses areappropriate actions in a case of shoulder dystocia. Focus: Supervision,Prioritization.14. Ans: 1, 3, 4 It is recommended that a newborn be placed on the back in a cribwith a firm mattress with no toys and a minimum of blankets as a safetymeasure for prevention of sudden infant death syndrome. A newborndischarged before 72 hours of life should be seen by an RN or health careprovider within 2 days of discharge. Breast-feeding women should breastfeedat all feedings, especially in these early weeks of establishing breastfeeding. This supports the Perinatal Core Measure of increasing thepercentage of newborns who are fed breast milk only. A more appropriateresponse would be for the father to help with household chores to allowbreast feeding to be established successfully. A flu shot in flu season is arecommended intervention for a new mother. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 1, 4 Patient 1 is in the latent phase of labor with her first child; shetypically will cope well at this point and will have many hours before laborbecomes more active. Patient 4 would most likely be managed expectantly atthis point and require observation and assessment for labor or signs ofinfection. Patient 2 can be expected to deliver soon and so requires intensivenursing care. Patient 3 is in the first hour of recovery and therefore requiresfrequent assessments, newborn assessments, and help with initiation ofbreast feeding if this is her chosen feeding method. Breast feeding in the firsthour of the baby's life supports the Perinatal Core Measure of increasing thepercentage of newborns who are fed breast milk only. Patient 5 could be inpremature labor and require administration of tocolytic medications to stopcontractions or preparation for a preterm delivery if dilation is advanced.347Focus: Assignment.16. Ans: 3 Fundal massage would be the priority nursing action because it helpsthe uterus to contract firmly and thus reduces bleeding. The first two answerchoices are appropriate nursing actions but do nothing to stop the immediatebleeding. Putting the baby to the breast does release oxytocin, which causesuterine contraction, but it will be slower to do so than fundal massage. Focus:Prioritization.17. Ans: 2, 4, 5 Staying with the parents at this moment and offering physicaland emotional support are appropriate. It is also appropriate to prepare theinfant in a way that demonstrates care and respect for the baby and to offerthe parents the opportunity to view and hold the infant as they desire. TheRN must ask the parents if there are cultural or religious rituals they wouldlike for their child to ensure that they feel that their infant has been treatedproperly with respect to their religion or culture. Autopsy should bediscussed but not at the very moments after birth. The infant should not beplaced on the maternal abdomen until the nurse assesses the parents’ wishesof when and how to view the infant. Focus: Prioritization.18. Ans: 3 Slight redness in the left calf could be suggestive of thrombophlebitisand requires further investigation. The other findings are within normallimits. Focus: Prioritization.19. Ans: 2, 4 Insertion of an indwelling catheter is indicated because the womanwill usually be unable to void because of the effect of the anesthetic in thebladder area. Positioning the patient on her side enhances blood flow andhelps to prevent hypotension. Changing maternal position encouragesprogress in labor. In management of the second stage of labor when epiduralanesthesia is used, laboring down as opposed to immediately pushingwithout the urge to push is advocated. It is not recommended to routinelydiscontinue an epidural anesthetic at complete dilation. A continuousepidural infusion provides pain relief throughout labor and birth. Use ofevidence-based practices with a laboring woman supports the Perinatal CoreMeasure of reducing the percentage of women who are delivered by cesareansection. Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 2, 3 The patient may be experiencing supine hypotension caused by thepressure of the uterus on the vena cava and the effects of epiduralmedication. Maternal hypotension can cause uteroplacental insufficiency,leading to fetal hypoxia. Placing the woman in lateral position can relieve thepressure on the vena cava. The anesthesiologist should be notified and mayneed to treat the patient with ephedrine to correct the hypotension. IV fluidsare increased per protocol when supine hypotension occurs. The correction ofcommon problems in labor supports the Perinatal Core Measure of reducingthe percentage of women who are delivered by cesarean section. Focus:Prioritization.21. Ans: 3 The RN remains an important part of the labor and birth in this348scenario. Even with a good support team present, the RN needs to observeand assess the patient's comfort and safety as part of essential nursing careduring labor. The RN's expertise allows the RN to make helpful suggestionsto the support people and patient. The patient should be encouraged to usepositions and activities that are most comfortable to her. It is appropriate tolet the patient and support people know of all pain control options, but itwould not be appropriate to continually offer pain medication to a patientwho has chosen natural childbirth. Expert nursing care in labor supports thePerinatal Core Measure of reducing the percentage of women who aredelivered by cesarean section. Focus: Prioritization.22. Ans: 3 Painless vaginal bleeding can be a symptom of placenta previa. Adigital vaginal examination is contraindicated until ultrasonography can beperformed to rule out placenta previa. If a digital examination is performedwhen placenta previa is present, it can cause increased bleeding. The otherstatements reflect appropriate assessment of an incoming patient withvaginal bleeding. Focus: Assignment; Test Taking Tip: The nurse shouldconsider the possible causes of the symptom listed and choose the answeroption that assures patient safety until the specific cause of a symptom isknown.23. Ans: 1 Administration of antiviral medications to the pregnant woman andthe newborn, cesarean birth, and avoidance of breast feeding have reducedthe incidence of perinatal transmission of HIV from approximately 26% to 1–2%. Pregnancy is not known to accelerate HIV disease in the mother. Themost important nursing action is to engage the mother in prenatal care andeducate her as to the great benefits of medication for HIV during pregnancy.Focus: Prioritization.24. Ans: 3 When a patient discloses fear of hurting herself or her baby, the RNmust have the woman immediately evaluated before allowing her to leave.Merely informing the patient about community resources is not sufficient.The “baby blues” are typically milder and occur 1 to 2 weeks postpartum.After the woman has been evaluated, the provider can prescribeantidepressants that can be safely used while breast feeding. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: When a situation presents the potential forharm to a patient, choose the option that best protects patient safety.25. Ans: 2 There is no evidence that exercise should be avoided in the firsttrimester of pregnancy in a healthy woman without medical or obstetriccomplications. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologistsrecommends 30 minutes or more of exercise on most if not all days of theweek for pregnant women. Exercise in which injury is more likely to occurshould be avoided. Focus: Prioritization.26. Ans: 4 A newborn baby should feed 8 to 12 times in 24 hours. The otherfindings are normal for an infant of this age. The baby should void 6 to 8times a day after the fourth day of life. Helpful guidance at this point mayhelp parents understand infant feeding and help support the Perinatal Core349Measure of increasing the percentage of infants who are fed breast milk only.Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Consider the age of the infant as themost important information when choosing an answer option in manyquestions in pediatrics because infant and child needs and norms changevery significantly with age.27. Ans: 4 The yellow eye discharge could be a conjunctivitis related to aninfection acquired during birth or afterward. The other findings are normalvariants on a newborn of this age. A newborn may normally experience aweight loss of 5% to 10% in the first days of life. Focus: Prioritization.28. Ans: 1, 2 During phototherapy, the infant's eyes must be protected and thetemperature carefully monitored to avoid both hypothermia andhyperthermia. Breast feeding should be continued to avoid dehydration andto increase passage of meconium, which helps to excrete bilirubin. Ointmentsor lotions should not be applied to the skin during phototherapy as they maycause burns. Encouraging continued breast feeding and teaching the familythe benefits of breast feeding in this scenario supports the Perinatal CoreMeasure of increasing the percentage of infants who are fed breast milk only.Focus: Supervision.29. Ans: 1 Option 1 clearly states the current recommendation of the Centers forDisease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the rationale for therecommendation. The nurse must always check the most recentrecommendations online at CDC.gov. With any disease outbreak, therecommendations may change weekly, and it is a vital nursing responsibilityto be sure the advice given to patients is consistent with the latest evidencebasedinformation. Option 2 is appropriate advice for someone in a Zikaimpactedarea but does not appropriately counsel the patient not to travel tosuch an area at this time. Options 3 and 4 are incorrect information to give.Repellent containing DEET is recommended for a person in a Zika-impactedcountry. Casual or household contact with persons from a Zika-impactedarea is not thought at this time to spread the Zika virus. Focus: Prioritization.30. Ans: 2 Option 2 provides the correct preconception information that shouldbe given to all couples planning pregnancy. Option 1 does not demonstratethe nurse using her or his professional knowledge to offer appropriateinformation to the couple. Option 3 suggests judgment of the couple for theirchoice to have a child and would be inappropriate. Although it can beappropriate for the nurse to discuss a woman's motivations for pregnancy insome cases when the pregnancy might seriously adversely affect the woman'shealth, it would not be appropriate to do so based on the fact that the womenare in a same-sex relationship. Option 4 is incorrect information. Focus:Prioritization.31. Ans: 2 The priority of nursing care of a newborn being breast fed is to assureadequate transfer of milk from mother to baby. The process of lactationrequires hormonal stimulation during pregnancy and after birth. There areprotocols for stimulation of lactation in a woman who has not given birth as350in this case or in adoption cases. The protocols involve hormonal stimulationof the breasts before birth and mechanical stimulation with pumping. Thenurse would need to find out if the partner has been preparing for lactation inthis way to know how to best help them achieve their goal. The nurse mustclearly communicate the obligation to follow practices that assure thenewborn adequate intake. Option 1 without knowledge of how the partnerhas been preparing for lactation would be inappropriate and might put theinfant at risk for inadequate intake. Options 3 and 4 are not appropriateresponses for any couple planning to breast-feed their baby. This itemsupports the Perinatal Core Measurement of increasing breast feeding. Focus:Prioritization.32. Ans: 3, 4, 1, 2 The correct order of action always puts patient safety first. Inthis case, the nurse should simply ask the unauthorized visitor to identifyherself and her purpose on the unit. If any hostility or combativeness isencountered, security should be immediately called. Alerting the desksecretary to maintain close attentiveness to the infant security system wouldenhance patient safety and allow a security code to be quickly called if aninfant were missing. After patient safety is assured, it is then the professionalresponsibility of the nurse to look at the system issues that caused the breach.The other nurse should be asked why the unauthorized visitor was allowedinto the unit and explain the risk this action caused to others on the unit. Areview of policies with the staff by the unit leadership would then furtherremind all staff of the need for constant vigilance and adherence to securitysystems in place to avoid risk to the patients in their care. Focus:Prioritization.33. Ans: 3 The key information in the question is that the chest x-rayexamination showed no evidence of active TB processes in the lungs. Thepatient is therefore not considered infectious to other patients or to hernewborn nor through her milk. Treatment of latent TB postpartum isappropriate for most patients depending on their medical profile. The otheroptions are inappropriate in this scenario. Focus: Prioritization.34. Ans: 2 The mother with varicella can breast feed her infant. The newbornshould have received varicella-zoster immune globulin and may room withthe mother in isolation from other patients. The mother should avoid havingthe infant skin contact any varicella lesions. The other advice given by thenew nurse is accurate. A mother with varicella should have standard,airborne, and contact precautions. The new nurse should be shown the unitpolicy on varicella and helped to understand why the mother can breast feed.The information should be corrected by the new nurse so the mother at thisdifficult time has no misconceptions or guilt. Focus: Supervision.35. Ans: 2 Option 2 factually explains to the patient the real risks associatedwith the disease in pregnancy. Research has shown that describing to patientsthe specific risks a disease may have for them or their children help them toaccept the vaccine. Option 1 does offer useful information for preventing the351flu but does not go far enough in factually explaining the vaccine. Option 3 isincorrect because giving the vaccine postpartum does not impact the risk offlu during pregnancy. Option 4 is incorrect. Even though an intervention canbe highly recommended, a patient may always decline. Focus: Prioritization.36. Ans: 3, 1, 2, 4 In prioritization, patient safety always takes precedence. In thiscase, a 16-year-old woman with elevated blood pressure and a headache isshowing symptoms of preeclampsia, which can be life threatening. Thispatient would need prompt assessment and notification of the health careprovider for immediate evaluation. The patient is tearful and discouragedabout breast feeding and needs timely help from the nurse because she is at avulnerable time in breast feeding when many women give up withoutcompassionate skillful interventions by a nurse or lactation consultant. Thenurse could delegate to the unit secretary the task of notifying the socialworker of the woman who wants to discuss possible adoption with her. Thenurse would also assess the patient and explore her situation, but bydelegating the call, the process can begin. A temperature of 100.5°F (38.1°C)on day one after cesarean section is not an unusual finding and needs to bemonitored via routine assessments for rising temperature or clinicalsymptoms of infection. Focus: Prioritization.37. Ans: 1, 4, 6 Droplet precautions dictate health care providers to wear a maskwhile in the room and discard it before leaving the room. In this case, a gownand gloves would be required only if care involved contact with bodily fluids(which may happen frequently in labor and delivery). Use of a negativepressure room is incorrect because it is a feature of airborne precautions. Thebreast milk itself does not carry influenza and may contain protectiveantibodies against influenza which may benefit the newborn. The otheroptions are correct choices in the case of droplet precautions. The nurseshould review with the student nurse the types of isolation procedures andclarify the features of each and the need to review information beforecommunicating it to the patient. Focus: Assignment.38. Ans: 3 This is a situation no nurse would choose to be in. Theseconversations would have been better held during the prenatal visits whenthe diagnosis of placenta previa was made and the discussion could havebeen more lengthy and thorough. At this moment, however, with activebleeding, the lives of the baby and the mother are at risk, so teaching must beaccurate and succinct. Option 3 directly addresses the concerns of the coupleand gives them information to quickly consider in their decision. It alsobrings the obstetrician rapidly into the conversation to allow the obstetricianand nurse to collaborate effectively in communicating to the patient. Theessential clinical information to communicate quickly is that the risk ofhepatitis B is about 1 in 250,000, and the risk of hepatitis C and HIV are 1 in 2million from a blood transfusion in the United States. Explain that because ofthe bleeding she is having, her anemia, and the surgery she is about to have,she is at risk for significant blood loss and resulting severe anemia, which islinked with slower recovery, breast-feeding problems, increased risk of352infection, hemorrhagic shock, and death. Option 1 does not show the nurseusing her professional knowledge to educate the patient about the risks andbenefits, but just allowing the patient to make a consequential decisionwithout being provided adequate information. Option 2 is inaccurate, andOption 4 is too time consuming for the clinical scenario at hand. Focus:Prioritization.39. Ans: 2 Oxytocin is a high-alert medication, and although frequently used inlabor and delivery, it requires meticulous monitoring to avoid complications.In Option 2, the contractions are too close together, which is stressful for thefetus because oxygenation is decreased. If this pattern of tachysystole isallowed to continue, fetal hypoxia may occur. Although the fetal heart rate isnow normal, the nursing action required at this time would be to stop theoxytocin or decrease the dose and notify the health care provider whilekeeping a close eye on the fetal heart rate and placing the patient in optimalposition for maternal fetal circulation. This option involves patient safety andso is the priority case. The other options are normal findings during inductionof labor and varying stages of labor. This item addresses the Perinatal CoreMeasurement of reducing the incidence of cesarean sections. Focus:Prioritization.40. Ans: 2 Family-centered care and open family visitation is the optimal choicein the postpartum unit. Family members and young children can bewelcomed into the units. However, mothers and newborns are a vulnerablegroup, and there are times when concerns regarding infectious diseasespread must take precedence. The toddler described likely had norovirus, ahighly contagious gastrointestinal disease. Excluding the toddler and anyother ill family members from visiting the postpartum unit would berecommended. The nurse must realize this may be extremely disappointingto the family and must work hard to find a substitute way for the mother,toddler, and newborn to interact possibly through internet connection,photos, phone calls, and so on. It would also be the nurse's responsibility todiscuss the illness of the toddler with associated health care providers andinfectious disease nurses at the hospital as well as consulting Centers forDisease Control and Prevention guidelines to offer the patient evidencebasedadvice regarding measures to take upon discharge to prevent spread ofthe infection. The other options would not be recommended. Focus:Prioritization.353C H A P T E R 1 9354Pediatric Problems355Questions1. A 3-month-old infant arrives at the health center for a scheduled well-childvisit. The parents ask the nurse why the infant extends the arms and legs inresponse to a loud sound. Which response by the nurse is best?1. Inform the parents that this is a normal reflex that generally disappears by4 to 6 months of age.2. Tell the parents that if the behavior does not change by 6 months, the infantwill need further evaluation.3. Remind the parents that this is a normal response that indicates the infant'shearing is intact.4. Reassure the parents that the behavior is normal and not an indicator ofany problem such as cerebral palsy.2. Which pediatric pain patient should be assigned to a newly graduated RN?1. An adolescent who has sickle cell disease and was recently weaned frommorphine delivered via a patient-controlled analgesia device to an oralanalgesic; he has been continually asking for an increased dose2. A child who needs premedication before reduction of a fracture; the childhas been crying and is resistant to any touch to the arm or other procedures3. A child who is receiving palliative end-of-life care; the child is receivingopioids around the clock to relieve suffering, but there is a progressivedecrease in alertness and responsiveness4. A child who has chronic pain and whose medication andnonpharmacologic regimen has recently been changed; the mother isanxious to see if the new regimen is successful3. The nurse caring for a 3-year-old child plans to assess the child's pain usingthe Wong-Baker FACES® Pain Rating Scale. Which accompanyingassessment question would be the most useful?3561. “If number 0 (smiling face) were no pain and number 10 (crying face) werea big pain, what number would your pain be?”2. “Can you point to the face picture with one finger and tell me what thatpain feels like inside of you?”3. “The smiling face has ‘no hurting’; the crying face has a ‘really big hurting.’Which face is most like your hurting?”4. “If you look at these faces and I give you a paper and pencil, can you drawfor me the face that looks most like your pain?”4. The nurse is caring for several children with cancer who are receivingchemotherapy. The nurse is reviewing the morning laboratory results foreach of the patients. Which patient condition combined with the indicated357laboratory result would cause the nurse the greatest concern?1. Nausea and vomiting with a potassium level of 3.3 mEq/L (3.3 mmol/L)2. Epistaxis with a platelet count of 100,000/mm3 (100 × 109/L)3. Fever with an absolute neutrophil count of 450/mm3 (450 × 109/L)4. Fatigue with a hemoglobin level of 8 g/dL (80 g/L)5. A 7-month-old infant arrives at the health center for a scheduled well-childvisit. When the nurse approaches the infant to obtain vital signs, the infantcries vigorously and clings fearfully to the mother. Which of the followingphenomena provides the best explanation for the infant's behavior?1. Separation anxiety2. Disassociation disorder3. Stranger anxiety4. Autism spectrum6. A 6-year-old child who received chemotherapy and had anorexia is nowcheerfully eating peanut butter, yogurt, and applesauce. When the motherarrives, the child refuses to eat and throws the dish on the floor. What is thenurse's best response to this behavior?1. Remind the child that foods tasted good today and will help her or hisbody to get strong.2. Allow the mother and child time alone to review and control the behavior.3. Ask the mother to leave until the child can finish eating and then invite herback.4. Explain to the mother that the behavior could be a normal expression ofanger.7. An 18-month-old child has oral mucositis secondary to chemotherapy. Whichtask should the nurse delegate to the unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Reporting evidence of severe mucosal ulceration2. Assisting the child in swishing and spitting mouthwash3. Assessing the child's ability and willingness to drink through a straw4. Feeding the child a bland, moist, soft diet8. The pediatric unit charge nurse is making patient assignments for the eveningshift. Which patient is most appropriate to assign to an experiencedLPN/LVN?1. A 1-year-old patient with severe combined immunodeficiency disease whois scheduled to receive chemotherapy in preparation for a stem celltransplant2. A 2-year-old patient with Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome who has orders for aplatelet transfusion3. A 3-year-old patient who has chronic graft-versus-host disease and isincontinent of loose stools3584. A 6-year-old patient who received chemotherapy 1 week ago and isadmitted with increasing lethargy and a temperature of 101°F (38.3°C)9. The pediatric unit charge nurse is working with a new RN. Which action bythe new RN requires the most immediate action on the part of the pediatricunit charge nurse?1. Wearing gloves, gowns, and a mask for a neutropenic child who isreceiving chemotherapy2. Placing a newly admitted child with respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)infection in a room with another child who has RSV3. Wearing a N95 respirator mask when caring for a child with tuberculosis4. Performing hand hygiene with soap and water after caring for a child withdiarrhea caused by Clostridium difficile10. The nurse is preparing to care for a 6-year-old child who has just undergoneallogenic stem cell transplantation. Which nursing tasks should the nursedelegate to the unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)? Select all that apply.1. Stocking the child's room with standard personal protective equipmentitems2. Teaching the child to perform thorough hand washing after using thebathroom3. Reminding the child to wear a face mask outside of the hospital room4. Assessing the child's oral cavity for signs and symptoms of infection5. Talking to the family members about the methods to reduce risk ofinfection11. A 4-month-old infant boy is brought to the emergency department by hisparents. He has been vomiting and fussy for the past 24 hours. On exam,there are circular bruises on his back. What priority assessment does thenurse anticipate?1. Chest x-ray examination2. Ultrasonography of the head3. Electroencephalography4. Ophthalmologic examination12. Which action will the public health nurse take to have the most impact onthe incidence of infectious diseases in the school?1. Make soap and water readily available in the classrooms.2. Ensure that students are immunized according to nationalrecommendations.3. Provide written information about infection control to all parents.4. Teach students how to cover their mouths when they cough or sneeze.13. While working in the pediatric clinic, the nurse receives a telephone callfrom the parent of a 13-year-old child who is receiving chemotherapy for359leukemia. The patient's sibling has chickenpox (varicella). Which action willthe nurse anticipate taking next?1. Administer varicella-zoster immune globulin to the patient.2. Teach the parent about the correct use of acyclovir.3. Educate the parent about contact and airborne precautions.4. Prepare to admit the patient to a private room in the hospital.14. An unimmunized 7-year-old child who attends a local elementary schoolcontracts rubeola (measles). The child has two siblings, ages 9 and 11 years,who also attend the elementary school. Which action by the school nurse is apriority?1. Exclude the child and siblings from attending school for 21 days.2. Notify all parents of children attending the school of the exposure.3. Recommend that siblings receive the measles vaccine.4. Recommend that siblings receive measles immunoglobulin.15. The school nurse is performing developmental screenings for children whowill be entering preschool. A 4-year-old girl excitedly tells the nurse abouther recent birthday party. As she relates the details of the event, shefrequently stutters. Which action by the nurse is most appropriate at thistime?1. Refer the child to an audiologist.2. Obtain a detailed birth history from the parents.3. Document the findings on the child's school record.4. Refer the child to a speech pathologist.16. An adolescent with cystic fibrosis (CF) is admitted to the pediatric unit withincreased shortness of breath and pneumonia. Which nursing activity is mostimportant to include in the patient's care?1. Allowing the adolescent to decide if aerosolized medications are needed2. Scheduling postural drainage and chest physiotherapy every 4 hours3. Placing the adolescent in a room with another adolescent with CF4. Encouraging oral fluid intake of 2400 mL/day17. The nurse has obtained this assessment information about a 3-year-oldpatient who has just returned to the pediatric unit after having atonsillectomy. Which finding requires the most immediate follow-up?1. Frequent swallowing2. Hypotonic bowel sounds3. Reports of a sore throat4. Heart rate of 112 beats/min18. The nurse is providing nursing care for a newborn infant with respiratorydistress syndrome (RDS) who is receiving nasal continuous positive airwaypressure ventilation. Which assessment finding is most important to report to360the health care provider?1. Apical pulse rate of 156 beats/min2. Crackles audible in both lungs3. Tracheal deviation to the right4. Oxygen saturation of 93%19. The nurse is assisting with the delivery of a 31-week gestational agepremature newborn who requires intubation for respiratory distresssyndrome (RDS). Which medication does the nurse anticipate will be neededfirst for this infant?1. Theophylline2. Surfactant3. Dexamethasone4. Albuterol20. The nurse obtains this information when assessing a 3-year-old patient withuncorrected tetralogy of Fallot who is crying. Which finding requiresimmediate action?1. The apical pulse rate is 118 beats/min.2. A loud systolic murmur is heard in the pulmonic area.3. There is marked clubbing of the child's nail beds.4. The lips and oral mucosa are dusky in color.21. The nurse is observing a preschool classroom of children between the ages of3 to 4 years of age. When planning actions to ensure that each child meetsnormal developmental goals, which child will require the most immediateintervention?1. A 3-year-old boy who needs help dressing2. A 4-year-old girl who has an imaginary friend3. A 4-year-old girl who engages only in parallel play4. A 3-year-old boy who draws stick figures22. After receiving the change-of-shift report, which patient should the nurseassess first?1. An 18-month-old patient with coarctation of the aorta who has decreasedpedal pulses2. A 3-year-old patient with rheumatic fever who reports severe knee pain3. A 5-year-old patient with endocarditis who has crackles audiblethroughout both lungs4. An 8-year-old patient with Kawasaki disease who has a temperature of102.2°F (38.9°C)23. The pediatric unit charge nurse is working with a newly graduated RN whohas been on orientation in the unit for 2 months. Which patient should thecharge nurse assign to the new RN?3611. A 2-year-old patient with a ventricular septal defect for whom digoxin 90mcg by mouth has been prescribed2. A 4-year-old patient who had a pulmonary artery banding and has justbeen transferred in from the intensive care unit3. A 9-year-old patient with mitral valve endocarditis whose parents needteaching about IV antibiotic administration4. A 16-year-old patient with a heart transplant who was admitted with alow-grade fever and tachycardia24. The nurse is obtaining the history and physical information for a child whois recovering from Kawasaki disease and receives aspirin therapy. Whichinformation concerns the nurse the most?1. The child attends a day-care center 5 days a week.2. The child's fingers have areas of peeling skin.3. The child is very irritable and cries frequently.4. The child has not received any immunizations.25. The RN is working with an LPN/LVN to provide care for a 10-year-oldpatient with severe abdominal, hip, and knee pain caused by a sickle cellcrisis. Which action taken by the LPN/LVN requires the RN to interveneimmediately?1. Administering oral pain medication as needed2. Positioning cold packs on the child's knees3. Encouraging increased fluid intake4. Monitoring vital signs every 2 hours26. The nurse has just received a change-of-shift report about these pediatricpatients. Which patient will the nurse assess first?1. A 1-year-old patient with hemophilia B who was admitted because ofdecreased responsiveness2. A 3-year-old patient with von Willebrand disease who has a dose ofdesmopressin (DDAVP) scheduled3. A 7-year-old patient with acute lymphocytic leukemia who haschemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia4. A 16-year-old patient with sickle cell disease who reports acute right lowerquadrant abdominal pain27. The nurse is reviewing a complete blood count for a 3-year-old patient withidiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). Which information should thenurse report immediately to the health care provider (HCP)?1. Prothrombin time (PT) of 12 seconds2. Hemoglobin level of 6.1 g/dL (61 g/L)3. Platelet count of 40,000/mm3 (40 × 109/L)4. Leukocyte count of 5600/mm3 (5.6 × 109/L)36228. A 4-year-old patient with acute lymphocytic leukemia has these medicationsordered. Which one is most important to double-check with another licensednurse?1. Prednisone 1 mg PO2. Amoxicillin 250 mg PO3. Methotrexate 10 mg PO4. Filgrastim 5 mcg subcutaneously29. A 6-year-old child arrives in the emergency department with active seizures.Which assessment is a priority for the nurse to obtain?1. Heart rate2. Body mass index (BMI)3. Blood pressure4. Weight30. The nurse is caring for a 3-year-old patient who has returned to the pediatricintensive care unit after insertion of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt to correcthydrocephalus. Which assessment finding is most important to communicateto the surgeon?1. The child is crying and says, “It hurts!”2. The right pupil is 1 mm larger than the left pupil.3. The cardiac monitor shows a heart rate of 130 beats/min.4. The head dressing has a 2-cm area of bloody drainage.31. The nurse is caring for a newborn with a myelomeningocele who is awaitingsurgical closure of the defect. Which assessment finding is of most concern?1. Bulging of the sac when the infant cries2. Oozing of stool from the anal sphincter3. Flaccid paralysis of both legs4. Temperature of 101.8°F (38.8°C)32. An excited mother calls the nurse for advice. “My child got cleaning solutionin her eyes, and I rinsed her eyes with water for a few minutes. What should Ido? She is still screaming!” What does the nurse instruct the caller to do first?1. Comfort the child and check her vision.2. Continue to irrigate the eyes with water.3. Call the Poison Control Center.4. Call 911 to request an ambulance.33. The nurse is caring for a child with a foreign body in the ear canal who hasnot been evaluated by the health care provider. Which actions should thenurse implement? Select all that apply.1. Inspect the pinna for trauma.2. Irrigate the auditory canal with warm water.3633. Obtain a history for the type of object.4. Attempt to remove the object with forceps.5. Use an otoscope to check for perforation.34. An adolescent who was hospitalized for anorexia nervosa is following theprescribed treatment plan. Her self-esteem and weight have graduallyimproved, but she continues to refer to herself as “fatty.” She is able toverbalize an appropriate diet and exercise plan. At this point, what is thepriority concern?1. Patient needs to continue to gain weight.2. Patient has an unrealistic body image.3. Patient needs more information about nutrition.4. Patient lacks motivation to adhere to therapy.35. A 6-year-old girl arrives in the emergency department with her parents. Shehit her head when she fell from the jungle gym in the school playground.Which questions are appropriate for the nurse to ask to assess the child'sneurologic status? Select all that apply.1. What is your home address?2. What time does your family eat dinner?3. What grade are you in?4. What is your teacher's name?5. What time did you fall?6. What is the name of your school?36. A 2-year-old child who has abdominal pain is diagnosed withintussusception. A hydrostatic reduction has been performed. Which findingshould be reported immediately before surgery proceeds?1. Palpable sausage-shaped abdominal mass2. Passage of normal brown stool3. Passage of currant jelly–like stools4. Frequent nausea and vomiting37. A parent calls the emergency department, saying, “I think my toddler mighthave swallowed a little toy. He is breathing okay, but I don’t know what todo.” What is the most essential question to ask the caller?1. “Has he vomited?”2. “Have you been checking his stools?”3. “What do you think he swallowed?”4. “Has he been coughing?”38. The nurse is teaching a group of day-care workers about how to avoidtransmission of hepatitis A in day-care settings. What is the single mosteffective measure to emphasize?3641. Hand hygiene should be performed often to prevent and control the spreadof infection.2. Children in whom hepatitis has been diagnosed should not share toys withothers.3. Children with episodes of fecal incontinence should be isolated fromothers.4. Immunizations are recommended before children are admitted into daycaresettings.39. These medications have been prescribed for a 9-year-old patient with deeppartial- and full-thickness burns. Which medication is most important todouble-check with another licensed nurse before administration?1. Silver sulfadiazine ointment2. Famotidine 20 mg IV3. Lorazepam 0.5 mg PO4. Multivitamin 1 tablet PO40. The nurse is caring for a 5-year-old whose mother asks why he still wets thebed. What is the best response?1. “He is old enough that he should no longer be wetting the bed.”2. “Most children outgrow bed-wetting by the time they start school.”3. “His bed-wetting may be due to an immature bladder or deep sleeppattern.”4. “He will probably stop once he realizes how embarrassing it is to wet thebed.”41. Which intervention for a 5-year-old child who still wets the bed would bebest assigned to the unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Reminding the child to use the bathroom before going to bed2. Teaching the mother about moisture alarm devices3. Administering the prescribed dose of imipramine4. Discussing research related to the use of hypnosis with the mother42. Parents of a 13-year-old adolescent girl expressed concern because shespends “quite a bit of time in her room alone in front of the mirror.” The girl'sheight and weight are in the 50th percentile. In the exam room, the girl isquiet but does answer questions appropriately. What advice should the nurseprovide to the parents?1. “Further evaluation by a psychologist is needed because your daughterspends a lot of time alone in her room.”2. “Limit the amount of time that your daughter is allowed to spend alone inher room.”3. “This behavior is normal. Your daughter is adjusting to the physicalchanges she is experiencing.”3654. “This behavior may be associated with depression, and further evaluationby a counselor is advised.”43. A 16-year-old female adolescent arrives at the health center. She tells thenurse that she's been sexually active for 6 months “but only with myboyfriend.” Her immunizations are up to date. Screening for which sexuallytransmitted disease (STD) will be most important for this patient?1. Syphilis2. Genital herpes simplex3. Human papillomavirus4. Chlamydia44. The health care provider has ordered cooling measures for a child with feverwho is likely to be discharged when the temperature comes down. Whichtask will the nurse delegate to the unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Providing explanations of nursing actions to the family2. Assisting the child to remove the outer clothing3. Advising the parent to use acetaminophen instead of aspirin4. Monitoring the child's level of consciousness and orientation level45. A tearful parent brings a child to the emergency department after the childtakes an unknown amount of children's chewable vitamins at an unknowntime. The child is currently alert and asymptomatic. What information shouldbe immediately reported to the health care provider?1. The ingested children's chewable vitamins contain iron.2. The child has been treated previously for ingestion of toxic substances.3. The child has been treated several times before for accidental injuries.4. The child was nauseated and vomited once at home.46. The nurse is preparing a child for IV moderate (conscious) sedation beforerepair of a facial laceration. What information should the nurse immediatelyreport to the health care provider?1. The parent is unsure about the child's tetanus immunization status.2. The child is upset and pulls out the IV.3. The parent declines the IV moderate (conscious) sedation.4. The parent wants information about the IV moderate (conscious) sedation.47. A teenager arrives in the triage area alert and ambulatory, but his clothes arecovered with blood. His friends are yelling, “We were goofing around, andhe got poked in the abdomen with a stick!” Which comment would be ofmost concern?1. “There was a lot of blood, and we used three bandages.”2. “He pulled the stick out, just now, because it was hurting him.”3. “The stick was really dirty and covered with mud.”4. “He has diabetes, so he needs attention right away.”36648. The emergency department receives multiple individuals, mostly children,who were injured when the roof of a day-care center collapsed because of aheavy snowfall. Based on physiologic differences in children compared withadults, for which injuries and complications will the nurse assess first? Selectall that apply.1. Head injuries2. Bradycardia or junctional arrhythmias3. Hypoxemia4. Liver and spleen contusions5. Hypothermia6. Fractures of the long bones7. Lumbar spines injuries49. A 16-year-old patient arrived at the cystic fibrosis (CF) clinic for a routine 3-month visit. The most recent respiratory culture results are negative. Whichaction is best for the nurse to take?1. Place the patient in an exam room immediately upon arrival to the clinic.2. Allow the patient to wait in the reception area until the provider isavailable to see the patient.3. Allow the patient to wait in the reception area with a mask until theprovider is available to see the patient.4. Place the patient in a waiting area with other patients who also havenegative respiratory cultures.50. A child with Hirschsprung disease arrives on the pediatric unit from theoperating room with a temporary colostomy. Which task should the nursedelegate to unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Assess the frequency and consistency of stool.2. Instruct the parents on skin care.3. Stock the room with ostomy supplies.4. Assess the patient for pain.51. A newborn infant is diagnosed with tracheoesophageal fistula. Whichnursing interventions should be implemented in the preoperative period?Select all that apply.1. Provide small frequent feedings.2. Elevate the head of the bed.3. Prepare a tracheostomy tray.4. Set up suctioning.5. Administer IV antibiotics.52. A 2-year-old child arrives at the health center for a routine well-child visit. Acomplete blood count and lead level are obtained. The lead level is less than10 mcg/dL (0.483 μmol/L). The hemoglobin is 8 g/dL (80 g/L). The hematocrit367is 24% (0.24 volume fraction), and the mean corpuscular volume (MCV) is65 μm3 (65 fL). What questions should the nurse ask the parent to obtain amore thorough history? Select all that apply.1. Does your child eat nonfood substances?2. Is your child more prone to infections?3. Has your child experienced hair loss?4. Does your child frequently have nosebleeds?5. How much milk does your child drink?53. Liquid supplemental iron is prescribed for a 10-month-old child with irondeficiency anemia. The parents tell the nurse that their child hates the taste ofmedicine. Which of the following instructions should the nurse provide to theparents? Select all that apply.1. Give the iron orally with a syringe.2. Mix the iron in a little bit of chocolate syrup.3. Give the iron with food or milk.4. Let the child drink the iron through a straw.5. Give the iron with orange juice.54. Parents of a 6-month-old girl bring the infant to the emergency departmentbecause “she has not held anything down for the entire day.” The nurseobtains a fingerstick blood glucose of 94 (5.22 mmol/L). The infant's rectaltemperature is 101°F (38.3°C), heart rate is 198 beats/min, respiratory rate is40 breaths/min, and blood pressure 60/38 mm Hg in the left arm. Whichnursing action is a priority?1. Administer an antiemetic rectally.2. Administer a bolus of D10W.3. Administer a bolus of normal saline.4. Administer an antipyretic rectally.55. A 10-year-old girl has completed a course of amoxicillin for a urinary tractinfection (UTI). This is the second UTI the child has had this year. The child isin the 95th percentile for weight and has a history of constipation. Herparents ask the nurse for preventive strategies for UTIs. Which of thefollowing preventive strategies is best for the nurse to recommend?1. Increase fiber in the diet.2. Drink cranberry juice.3. Increased vitamin C in a diet.4. Limit fluids at bedtime.56. A 16-year-old boy comes into the office of the school nurse complaining ofleft hip pain that began when playing basketball in gym class. The boy is inthe 85th percentile for height and weight. He complains of increased painwith weight bearing. The nurse observes out-toeing of the left leg with368ambulation. Which nursing action is a priority?1. Administer ibuprofen and instruct the boy to rest.2. Apply heat to the hip and elevate the left leg.3. Refer the boy to the emergency department.4. Apply ice to the hip and immobilize it with a splint.57. A toddler is brought to the health center for a fever of 102°F (39°C) and asore throat. As the nurse places a toddler and his parents in the exam room,the child experiences a tonic-clonic seizure. Which nursing action is apriority?1. Assess the child's level of consciousness.2. Obtain an oxygen saturation.3. Loosen the child's clothing.4. Position the child in side-lying position.369Answer Key1. Ans: 1 The infant's behavior is consistent with the Moro and startle reflexes.The Moro reflex usually disappears by 6 months of age. The startle reflexusually disappears by 4 months of age. A hearing test is not based onresponse to loud sounds alone. Although it is true that further evaluationmay be needed if the reflexes do not disappear, there is no need for the nurseto discuss this with the parents at this time. The infant's behavior is notconsistent with cerebral palsy. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Instudying pediatrics, pay attention to developmental milestones. Moro, startle,and Babinski reflexes are three classic examples of what the nurse observesduring physical assessment. Can you name others?2. Ans: 2 The set of circumstances is least complicated for the child with thefracture, and this would be the best patient for a new and relativelyinexperienced nurse. The child is likely to have a good response to painmedication, and with gentle encouragement and pain management, theanxiety will resolve. The other three children have more complex social andpsychological issues related to pain management. Focus: Assignment.3. Ans: 3 Pain rating scales using faces (depicting smiling, neutral, frowning,crying, and so on) are appropriate for young children who may havedifficulty describing pain or understanding the correlation of pain tonumerical or verbal descriptors. The other questions require abstractreasoning abilities to make analogies and the use of advanced vocabulary.Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: When caring for children, you mustuse the principles of growth and development to choose the best assessmenttools and to differentiate normal from abnormal findings.4. Ans: 3 National guidelines indicate that rapid treatment of infection inneutropenic patients is essential to prevent complications such asoverwhelming sepsis and secondary infections; therefore, the child with feverand a low neutrophil count is the priority. A potassium level of 3.3 mEq/L(3.3 mmol/L) is borderline low and should be monitored. Nosebleeds arecommon, and the patient and parents should be taught to apply directpressure to the nose, have the child sit upright, and not disturb the clot.Severe spontaneous hemorrhage is not expected until the platelet count dropsbelow 20,000 mm3 (20 × 109/L). Children can withstand low hemoglobinlevels. The nurse should help the patient and parents regulate activity toprevent excessive fatigue. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 3 This infant is displaying stranger anxiety; the child becomes anxiouswhen exposed to unfamiliar people (strangers). Separation anxiety occurswhen the child is separated from the primary caregiver; anxiety and cryingare also common behaviors. Stranger anxiety and separation anxiety areconcurrent and generally begin at 7 to 8 months of age. Disassociationdisorder is characterized by disconnected thoughts and is not a disorder of370infancy. Autism spectrum is characterized by poor social interaction. The ageof the child is significant because autism is not usually detected at 7 monthsof age. Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 4 Help the mother to understand that the child may be angry aboutbeing left in the hospital or about her inability to prevent the illness andprotect the child. Reminding the child about the food and the purpose of thefood does not address the strong emotions underlying the outburst. Allowingthe mother and child time alone is a possibility, but the assumption would bethat the mother understands the child's behavior and is prepared to deal withthe behavior in a constructive manner. Asking the mother to leave the childsuggests that the mother is a source of stress. Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 4 Helping the child to eat is within the scope of responsibilities for aUAP. Assessing ability and willingness to drink and checking for extent ofmucosal ulceration is the responsibility of an RN. An 18-month-old child isnot able to swish and spit, which could result in swallowing the mouthwash.Mouthwash is not intended for swallowing because it can contain alcohol andother ingredients not safe for ingestion. Focus: Delegation.8. Ans: 3 LPN/LVN scope of practice includes care of patients with chronic andstable health problems, such as the patient with chronic graft-versus-hostdisease. Chemotherapy medications are considered high-alert medicationsand should be given by RNs who have received additional education inchemotherapy administration. Platelets and other blood products should begiven by RNs. The 6-year-old patient has a history and clinical manifestationsconsistent with neutropenia and sepsis and should be assessed by an RN asquickly as possible. Focus: Assignment.9. Ans: 1 Protective isolation (wearing gloves, gowns, and mask) revealed nosignificant differences in infection rates for children who are neutropenic.General standard precautions are advised with routine patient care. Althoughprivate rooms are preferred for patients who need droplet precautions, suchas patients with RSV infection, they can be placed in rooms with otherpatients with exactly the same microorganism. An N95 respirator isrecommended for tuberculosis. Washing hands with soap and water aftercaring for a patient with C. difficile is also recommended. Focus: Prioritization.10. Ans: 1, 3 Because all patient care staff members should be familiar withstandard personal protective equipment, a UAP will be able to stock theroom. Reminding the child to wear a face mask is also a task that can be doneby a UAP, although the RN is responsible for the initial teaching. Initiallyteaching the child hand-washing technique, nursing assessments, and familyeducation is within the scope of the registered nurse and not a UAP. Focus:Delegation.11. Ans: 4 The history and physical examination suggests shaken babysyndrome. An ophthalmologic examination is indicated to determine if theinfant has retinal hemorrhages characteristic of shaken baby syndrome.371Electroencephalography may be indicated if there is evidence of seizures.Magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography of the head (notultrasonography) can detect subdural hematomas. There is no evidence thatwould support the need for a chest x-ray examination. Focus: Prioritization;Test Taking Tip: To answer this type of question, analyze key information:age, symptoms, and injury. Vomiting and fussiness accompany manydisorders, but how would a 4-month old infant sustain circular bruises? Afteryou have identified the problem (probable abuse), use knowledge ofdisorders related to age groups to narrow the field (shaken baby syndromecommon among young infants), and identify common manifestations of thedisorder (retinal hemorrhage), then you can select the appropriate assessmenttechnique.12. Ans: 2 The incidence of once-common infectious diseases such as measles,chickenpox, and mumps has been most effectively reduced by theimmunization of all school-age children. The other actions are also helpfulbut will not have as great an impact as immunization. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 1 The administration of varicella-zoster immune globulin can preventthe development of varicella in immunosuppressed patients and willtypically be prescribed. Acyclovir therapy and hospitalization may berequired if the child develops a varicella-zoster virus infection. Contact andairborne precautions will be implemented to prevent the spread of infectionto other children if the child is hospitalized with varicella. Focus:Prioritization.14. Ans: 1 Rubeola is a highly contagious infectious disease with severeconsequences that include death. The Centers for Disease Control andPrevention reports that 9 of 10 susceptible persons with close contact to aperson with measles will contract the disease. The incubation period is 7 to 21days. Excluding the infected and exposed children during this period of timeis a priority to prevent exposure of healthy children enrolled in theelementary school. Although it is important to notify the parents of the otherchildren in the school of the exposure, limiting exposure of other children isthe priority. Mumps, measles, and rubella vaccine administered within 72hours of initial measles exposure and immunoglobulin administered within 6days of exposure may provide some protection or modify the clinical courseof the disease in unimmunized children; however, the priority is to preventan epidemic by limiting exposure. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 3 Stuttering during the preschool years is a normal variation,particularly when excited or upset. The cause is attributed to preschoolchildren's increased cognitive abilities and imagination such that their speechcannot keep up with their thoughts. Documenting this on the child's record isimportant for continued observation to determine if it extends beyond thepreschool years. Focus: Prioritization.16. Ans: 2 National guidelines indicate that airway clearance techniques arecritical for patients with CF; hence, postural drainage and chest372physiotherapy are a priority. National guidelines also indicate that childrenand adolescents with CF who are hospitalized with respiratory illnessesshould be placed on contact precautions. Furthermore, people with CFshould be separated from others with CF to reduce droplet transmission ofCF pathogens. There is no evidence that increased fluid intake adequatelythins respiratory secretions, and chest physiotherapy is the priority. Focus:Prioritization.17. Ans: 1 Frequent swallowing after tonsillectomy may indicate bleeding. Thenurse should inspect the back of the throat for evidence of bleeding. Theother assessment results are expected in a 3-year-old child after surgery.Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Be aware of expected findings so thatunexpected findings are noticed. In this case, frequent swallowing canindicate bleeding, which should be assessed often and reported to the healthcare provider if necessary.18. Ans: 3 Tracheal deviation suggests tension pneumothorax, a possiblecomplication of positive-pressure ventilation. The nurse will need tocommunicate rapidly with the health care provider and assist with actionssuch as chest tube insertion. The heart rate, crackles, and oxygen saturationwill be reported to the health care provider but are expected in RDS and donot require immediate intervention. Focus: Prioritization.19. Ans: 2 Research indicates that the administration of synthetic surfactantimproves respiratory status and decreases the incidence of pneumothorax inpremature infants with RDS. The other medications may be used ifrespiratory distress persists, but the first medication administered will be thesurfactant. Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 4 Circumoral cyanosis indicates a drop in the partial pressure ofoxygen that may precipitate seizures and loss of consciousness. The nurseshould rapidly place the child in a knee–chest position, administer oxygen,and take steps to calm the child. The other assessment data are expected in achild with congenital heart defects such as tetralogy of Fallot. Focus:Prioritization.21. Ans: 3 At 4 years of age, children engage in pretend play. Parallel play isseen in younger children between the ages of 2 and 3 years when they playside by side with limited interaction. The other behaviors aredevelopmentally appropriate. The nurse will plan interventions to ensurethat all the children meet developmental goals, but the 4-year-old childengaging only in parallel play will require the most immediate intervention.Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Consider predominant modes of playbased on age.22. Ans: 3 Crackles throughout both lungs indicate that the child has severe leftventricular failure as a complication of endocarditis. Hypoxemia is likely, sothe child needs rapid assessment of oxygen saturation, initiation ofsupplemental oxygen delivery, and administration of medications such as373diuretics. The other children should also be assessed as quickly as possible,but they are not experiencing life-threatening complications of their medicaldiagnoses. Focus: Prioritization.23. Ans: 1 This patient requires the least complex assessments and interventionsof the four patients. Safe administration of oral medications such as digoxinwould have been included in the orientation of the new RN graduate. Theconditions of the other patients are more complex, and they requireassessments or interventions (e.g., teaching) that should be carried out by anRN with more experience. Focus: Assignment.24. Ans: 4 Children who receive aspirin therapy are at risk for the developmentof Reye syndrome if they contract viral illnesses such as varicella orinfluenza, so the lack of immunization is the greatest concern for this child.Peeling skin on the fingers and toes and irritability are consistent withKawasaki disease but do not require any change in therapy. BecauseKawasaki disease is not a communicable disease, there is no risk fortransmission to other children in the day care (although assuring thatimmunizations are up to date before returning to day care is important).Focus: Prioritization.25. Ans: 2 Sickle cell crisis may include vaso-occlusive crisis, splenicsequestration, and aplastic crisis. The symptoms experienced by this child areindicative of both vaso-occlusive crisis and splenic sequestration. Placing coldpacks on the knees of a child with vaso-occlusive crisis results invasoconstriction, placing the child at risk for thrombosis formation.Encouraging increased fluid intake is advised to prevent thrombosisformation. Monitoring vital signs is a method to assess for life-threateningcomplications associated with both vaso-occlusive crisis and splenicsequestration. Vaso-occlusive crisis is associated with severe pain and painmedication is recommended. Focus: Prioritization.26. Ans: 1 Because decreased responsiveness in a 1-year-old patient with aclotting disorder may indicate intracerebral bleeding, this patient should beassessed immediately. The other patients also require assessments orinterventions but are not at immediate risk for life-threatening or disablingcomplications. Focus: Prioritization.27. Ans: 2 The low hemoglobin count may signify bleeding; therefore, alertingthe HCP is recommended. ITP is an autoimmune disorder by whichcirculating platelets are destroyed by autoantibodies. Platelet productionfrom the bone marrow, however, is not affected. Laboratory findingscharacteristic of ITP include a low platelet count generally less than20,000/mm3 (20 × 109/L). However, all other indices of the complete bloodcount are normal. Additionally, the PT and partial thromboplastin time arenormal with ITP. In this 3-year-old child, the leukocytes and PT are normal.The platelet count is low but consistent with this disease. Focus:Prioritization.37428. Ans: 3 Methotrexate is a high-alert drug, and extra precautions, such asdouble checking with another nurse, should be taken when administeringthis medication. Although many pediatric units have a policy requiring thatall medication administration to children be double-checked, the othermedications listed are not on the high-alert list published by the Institute forSafe Medication Practices. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: For testtaking purposes and for safety in the clinical setting, it is worthwhile tomemorize medications that are considered “high-alert” drugs.29. Ans: 4 The child will need medication to control the seizures. Medicationsfor children are based on weight in kilograms. Although heart rate and bloodpressure may be obtained, the priority is to stop the seizures with medication.There is no clinical indication for BMI for a child with active seizures. Focus:Prioritization.30. Ans: 2 Pupil dilation may indicate increased intracranial pressure andshould be reported immediately to the surgeon. The other data are notunusual in a 3-year-old patient after surgery, although they indicate the needfor ongoing assessments or interventions. Focus: Prioritization.31. Ans: 4 The elevated temperature indicates possible infection and should bereported immediately to the surgeon so that treatment can be started. Theother data are typical in an infant with myelomeningocele. Focus:Prioritization.32. Ans: 2 Even though the child is screaming, the mother must continue toirrigate the eyes for at least 20 minutes. Another adult, if present, should callthe Poison Control Center and 911. Focus: Prioritization.33. Ans: 1, 3 The nurse should assess the pinna for trauma and obtain history forthe type of object as a component of a complete assessment which coulddetermine the course of action by the health care provider. Some foreignbodies may swell when water is used for irrigation, further lodging the objectin the auditory canal. Removing the object with forceps could traumatize thetympanic membrane and auditory canal further. Placing an otoscope in theauditory canal could wedge the object further into the canal. Focus:Prioritization.34. Ans: 2 The patient continues to refer to herself as “fatty” and still has adisturbed body image; however, she has appropriate knowledge, and herself-esteem has improved. The patient has demonstrated ability to follow thetherapeutic plan while in the hospital. Interventions should be designed tohelp her to continue after discharge. Focus: Prioritization.35. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 6 This child is in Piaget's stage of concrete operations. Childrenin this stage can organize experiences and understand some complexinformation. However, children in this age group have difficultyconceptualizing time; therefore, asking questions about the time thatincidents occur will not be helpful in determining the child's orientation.Focus: Prioritization.37536. Ans: 2 Passage of brown stool indicates resolution of the intussusception, sosurgery may not be necessary. The other findings are part of the clinicalpresentation of this disorder. Focus: Prioritization.37. Ans: 4 Even though the caller reports that the child is “breathing okay,”additional questions about possible airway obstruction are the priority (e.g.,coughing, gagging, choking, drooling, refusing to eat or drink).Gastrointestinal symptoms should be assessed but are less urgent. The typeof foreign body, in the absence of symptoms, may dictate a wait-and-seeapproach, in which case the parent would be directed to check the stools forpassage of the foreign body. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Inemergency situations, apply the ABCs (airway, breathing, and circulation)before proceeding to other actions.38. Ans: 1 Hand washing is the most important aspect to emphasize.Addressing fecal incontinence and sharing of personal items may berecommended when the disease is in an infectious stage. Immunizations arerecommended, but this would be emphasized to parents rather than day-careworkers. Focus: Prioritization.39. Ans: 3 Oral sedation agents such as the benzodiazepines are consideredhigh-alert medications when ordered for children, and extra precautionsshould be taken before administration. Many facilities require that allmedications administered to pediatric patients be double-checked beforeadministration, but the lorazepam is the most important to double-check withanother nurse. Focus: Prioritization.40. Ans: 3 Theories about bed-wetting relate it to immature bladder and deepsleep patterns. Although it is true that most children stop bed-wetting by thetime they start school, this does not answer the mother's question. Many boyswet the bed until after the age of 5 years. The fourth response is not accuratebecause often bed-wetting is not within the control of a 5-year-old child.Focus: Prioritization.41. Ans: 1 Reminding the child about something that has already been taught iswithin the scope of practice for a UAP. An LPN/LVN could administer theoral medication. Teaching and discussion of other strategies for dealing withbed-wetting require additional education and are more appropriate to thescope of practice of the professional RN. Focus: Delegation.42. Ans: 3 This is normal behavior in early adolescence. During this time period,adolescents are conscious of their rapid physical changes. As a result, theyspend more time in front of the mirror inspecting their bodies. Consider thatthe height and weight are normal; therefore, an eating disorder is not likely.Also, the girl does answer questions appropriately, so mental health issuesare not likely. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: It will be helpful toknow what types of physical and mental health disorders are common atvarious developmental stages because these issues are likely to be on theNCLEX® Examination and will occur commonly in a pediatric nursing376practice setting.43. Ans: 4 Recommendations by the Centers for Disease Control and Preventionrecommend annual screening for chlamydia (and gonorrhea) for all sexuallyactive women younger than the age of 25 years. Chlamydia is the mostprevalent STD in the United States. Screening for syphilis and genital herpessimplex is recommended only if other risk factors or evidence of disease arepresent. The patient is fully immunized, which would include the humanpapillomavirus vaccine. Focus: Prioritization.44. Ans: 2 The UAP can help with the removal of outer clothing, which allowsthe heat to dissipate from the child's skin. Assessments, advising, andexplaining require RN-level education and scope of practice. Focus:Delegation.45. Ans: 1 Iron is a toxic substance that can lead to massive hemorrhage, coma,shock, and hepatic failure. Deferoxamine is an antidote that can be used forsevere cases of iron poisoning. The other information needs additionalinvestigation but will not change the immediate diagnostic testing ortreatment plan. Focus: Prioritization.46. Ans: 3 Parental refusal is an absolute contraindication; therefore, theprovider must be notified. Tetanus status can be addressed later. The RN canreestablish the IV access and provide information about moderate (conscious)sedation; if the parent is still not satisfied, the provider can give moreinformation. Focus: Prioritization.47. Ans: 2 An impaled object may be providing a tamponade effect, andremoval can precipitate sudden hemodynamic decompensation. Additionalhistory, including a more definitive description of the blood loss, depth ofpenetration, and medical history, should be obtained. Other information,such as the dirt on the stick or history of diabetes, is important in the overalltreatment plan but can be addressed later. Focus: Prioritization.48. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 5 Children have proportionately larger heads that predisposethem to head injuries. Hypoxemia is more likely because of their higheroxygen demand. Liver and spleen injuries are more likely because thethoracic cages of children offer less protection. Hypothermia is more likelybecause of children's thinner skin and proportionately larger body surfacearea. They have strong hearts; therefore, pulse rate will increase tocompensate, but other arrhythmias are less likely to occur. Children haverelatively flexible bones compared with those of adults. The most likelyspinal injury in children is injury to the cervical area. Focus: Prioritization.49. Ans: 1 This is a CF clinic, so this patient may be exposed to others with CF ifhe or she remains in the reception area. The CF Foundation recommends allindividuals with CF, regardless of respiratory culture results, be separatedfrom others with CF to reduce risk of droplet transmission of CF pathogens.National guidelines indicate that the best solution is that patients with CF notwait in common areas but be placed in a private exam room. However, when377patients are in common waiting areas, a minimum distance of 3 feet (1 meter)between patients should be maintained if patients have CF. Focus:Prioritization.50. Ans: 3 Assessment and patient teaching is the responsibility of the RN. TheUAP may stock the room with ostomy supplies but the nurse would giveinstructions or validate the UAP's knowledge of supplies. Focus: Delegation.51. Ans: 2, 4, 5 A tracheoesophageal fistula is a congenital malformation inwhich the esophagus ends in a blind pouch and there is a fistula (opening)between the esophagus and the trachea. The infant is a high risk foraspiration of esophageal contents into the trachea; hence, the infant is NPO inthe preoperative period. IV fluids are administered to maintain hydration. Atracheostomy is not indicated for tracheoesophageal fistula. Surgicalintervention for tracheoesophageal fistula include ligation of the fistula andreanastomosis of the esophagus. Suction should be on hand to removesecretions from the blind pouch. IV antibiotics are initiated in thepreoperative period. Focus: Prioritization.52. Ans: 1, 5 Iron deficiency anemia is a microcytic anemia. Laboratory findingsconsistent with iron deficiency anemia include low hemoglobin, hematocrit,and MCV. Additionally, the patient may have thrombocytosis, which is anincrease in the number of platelets; so the child will not be more likely tohave nosebleeds. The white blood cell count (WBC) and WBC differential arenot affected by anemia; therefore, the child will not be more prone toinfections. Children with iron deficiency anemia experience pica, which is aconsumption of nonfood items. Excessive cow's milk intake has been foundto cause anemia by irritating the intestine and resulting in microscopic bloodloss from the gastrointestinal tract. Focus: Prioritization.53. Ans: 1, 5 Iron supplementation can stain the teeth and has an unpleasanttaste. By administering the iron with a syringe to the back of the throat, it willmask the taste and prevent staining of the teeth. The vitamin C in orangejuice increases iron absorption and may mask the unpleasant taste. Chocolatecontains caffeine, which interferes with the absorption of iron. Milk and foodalso interfere with the absorption of iron. Although allowing a child to drinkthe iron through a straw is feasible for an older child, a 10-month-old childcannot developmentally perform this task. Focus: Prioritization.54. Ans: 3 This infant is experiencing severe dehydration, which is evidenced bytachycardia and hypotension. The child is at risk for hypovolemic shock,which is a life-threatening event. A bolus of normal saline or lactated Ringer'ssolution of 20 mL/kg is the standard of care to establish hemodynamicstability. The blood glucose is normal. The safety profile for antiemetics havenot been established with infants, and the priority for this patient is toestablish hemodynamic stability. Fever can cause increased fluid loss;however, the priority in this life-threatening situation is to establishhemodynamic stability. Focus: Prioritization.37855. Ans: 1 Based on the history, this child's constipation is the most likelyetiology of the UTI, and increasing dietary fiber is the best intervention.Urinary stasis from constipation is the primary cause of UTIs in children.Stool in the intestine prevents complete emptying of the bladder. There is noconclusive evidence to support that cranberry juice and vitamin C preventUTIs. Limiting fluids at bedtime has not been shown to decrease UTI.Increasing fluids however, helps to flush bacteria out of the bladder. Focus:Prioritization.56. Ans: 3 This boy is presenting with classic symptoms of slipped capitalfemoral epiphysis (SCFE), which is a slippage of the femoral head at theproximal epiphyseal plate. SCFE is an emergency. A delay in treatment canresult in necrosis and death of the femoral head. Although the exact cause ofSCFE is unknown, there is an increased incidence in boys. Additionally,obesity is a risk factor for SCFE. Focus: Prioritization.57. Ans: 4 To ensure safety and prevent aspiration the first action by the nurseshould be to position the child in side-lying position. Other assessment andactions will follow this initial step. Focus: Prioritization.379C H A P T E R 2 0380Pharmacology381Questions1. The nurse is caring for a patient newly diagnosed with hypertension. Bloodpressure readings over the past 8 hours have been:08:00: 164/93 mm Hg12:00:158/90 mm Hg16:00: 166/94 mm HgThe health care provider prescribes a noadded salt diet and plans to start the patient on hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg.Which action is most important for the nurse to do before administering thisdrug?1. Check the patient's serum potassium level.2. Review the patient's urine output for the past 24 hours.3. Instruct the unlicensed assistive personnel to check the patient's bloodpressure.4. Check whether the patient is having abnormal heart rhythms.2. A patient is prescribed meloxicam for rheumatoid arthritis. This drug has along half-life of 51 hours. Which prescription would the nurse be sure toclarify with the health care provider before giving the medication?1. Meloxicam 7.5 to 15 mg/day2. Meloxicam 15 mg/day before breakfast3. Meloxicam 7.5 mg every 4 hours as needed for pain4. Meloxicam 7.5 mg/day as needed3. The RN is a team leader working with an LPN/LVN and two unlicensedassistive personnel (UAP) to provide care for eight medical patients. Whichaction would be appropriate for the RN take with regard to nursing careprovided by the LPN/LVN?1. Delegate the performance of an abdominal dressing change to theLPN/LVN.2. Supervise and document the patient assessments completed by theLPN/LVN.3. Assign the LPN/LVN the administration of insulin to a patient with type 1diabetes.4. Delegate checking and recording vital signs on all eight patients to theLPN/LVN.4. A 14-year-old child was recently diagnosed with type 1 diabetes. The patientis prescribed 10 units of regular insulin and 15 units of NPH insulin eachmorning. How should the nurse instruct this patient to give herself theprescribed doses of insulin?1. “First draw up and administer the NPH insulin. Wait at least 15 minutes;then draw up and administer the regular insulin.”2. “First draw up and administer the regular insulin; then draw up andadminister the NPH insulin.”3823. “First draw up the NPH insulin; then draw up the regular insulin in thesame syringe.”4. “First draw up the regular insulin; then draw up the NPH insulin in thesame syringe.”5. A patient with type 2 diabetes has a prescription for a change in oralantidiabetic agents from glyburide to acarbose. The patient asks the nursewhy there is no need to be worried about the new drug causinghypoglycemia. What is the nurse's best answer?1. “Because your pancreatic function is improving, it does not need as muchstimulation, so acarbose is not as powerful as glyburide.”2. “Glyburide stimulates your pancreas to secrete insulin, increasing your riskfor hypoglycemia. Acarbose does not stimulate insulin secretion; rather, itreduces your intestinal uptake of sugar.”3. “Acarbose increases the cells’ uptake of glucose without the need forinsulin, so you cannot become hypoglycemic even if you miss a meal onthis medication.”4. “Glyburide is actually an oral form of insulin, and too much could makeyour blood sugar drop quickly. Acarbose reduces blood sugar bysuppressing pancreatic release of glucagon.”6. An adult patient with type 2 diabetes is prescribed miglitol 25 mg three timesa day with meals. What specific priority instruction about this drug does theRN provide the LPN/LVN assigned to care for this patient?1. “Make certain the patient's meal is actually on the unit beforeadministering the drug and give the drug with the first bite of the meal.”2. “Check the patient's blood glucose level to determine whether the drugtherapy is having an effect on the diabetes.”3. “Check the patient's daily urine output and current lab work, especially theblood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine levels, because kidneyproblems increase the effects of the drug.”4. “Make sure that the patient is able to eat and will do so within 30 minutesof taking the drug.”7. An older adult patient with type 1 diabetes is legally blind and is prescribeddaily morning doses of regular and NPH insulin. The patient's daughterprovides in-home care and will be preparing insulin syringes on a weeklybasis. What does the nurse teach the patient's daughter about storing theprefilled insulin syringes?1. “Keep the syringes stored flat and do not attach the needles until you areready to use a syringe.”2. “Keep the syringes in the upright position with the needle pointing towardthe ceiling.”3. “Keep them in the upright position with the needle pointing toward thefloor.”3834. “Storage position is unimportant as long as the syringes are kept in therefrigerator.”8. A female patient with type 2 diabetes who is breast-feeding her newborninfant has a prescription for glipizide. What is the nurse's best action?1. Administer the drug as ordered with meals.2. Hold the drug and clarify the order with the health care provider.3. Assign the LVN/LPN to administer the drug before breakfast.4. Instruct the unlicensed assistive personnel to check the patient's fingerstickglucose; then give the drug.9. A patient is to receive metoprolol tartrate 5 mg IV to control high bloodpressure. IV metoprolol tartrate is administered over 2 minutes. Based on thelabel for the medication, the nurse will administer _______________ mL/min.10. Which of the following should the nurse be sure to assess before and aftergiving amlodipine to treat high blood pressure? Select all that apply.1. Swelling in ankles or feet2. Heart rate3. Oral temperature4. Blood pressure5. Lung sounds6. Weight7. Respiratory rate11. A patient diagnosed with hypertension has received the first dose oflisinopril. Which interventions will the RN delegate to the unlicensedassistive personnel (UAP)? Select all that apply.1. Restrict the patient to bed rest for at least 12 hours.2. Recheck the patient's vital signs every 4 to 8 hours.3. Ensure that the patient's call light is within easy reach.3844. Keep the patient's bed in a supine position with all side rails up.5. Remind the patient to rise slowly from the bed and sit before standing.6. Assist the patient to get out of bed and use the bathroom.7. Assess the patient for signs of dizziness.12. An older patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is tobe discharged with prescriptions for albuterol, a short-acting beta agonist(SABA), and salmeterol, a long-acting beta agonist (LABA) bronchodilator.Which statement by the patient indicates to the nurse that the patient requiresadditional teaching?1. “I will insert my inhaler into the spacer and shake the whole unit three orfour times before taking my dose of the drug.”2. “I will use my salmeterol whenever I become suddenly short of breath.”3. “I will wait at least 1 minute between the first and second puff of myinhaler.”4. “I will check my pulse before and after using my bronchodilator inhaler.”13. Which patient care action could the nurse delegate to unlicensed assistivepersonnel (UAP) after administering an inhaled anti-inflammatory drug to apatient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)?1. Assess the patient's mouth for white-colored patches.2. Teach the patient how to clean the inhaler and spacer.3. Assist the patient to rinse the mouth with water or mouthwash.4. Auscultate the patient's lungs for any changes in breath sounds.14. A patient with familial hypercholesterolemia is prescribed atorvastatin10 mg once a day. Which finding will the nurse immediately report to thehealth care provider?1. Stomach upset2. Constipation3. Bloating4. Muscle soreness15. What key instruction must the nurse give to the unlicensed assistivepersonnel (UAP) who is assisting with morning care for an older patientprescribed apixaban, 2.5 mg orally twice a day, for chronic atrial fibrillation?1. “Be sure to tell me if you notice any bleeding from the gums when thepatient brushes his or her teeth.”2. “Instruct the patient to avoid using aspirin-containing drugs ornonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.”3. “Teach the patient to expect some bruising to occur because this is a sideeffect of the drug.”4. “Remind the patient that each morning a laboratory technician will stop byearly to draw clotting studies.”38516. The RN team leader has assigned the LPN/LVN to administer clopidogrel75 mg orally to a patient with a diagnosis of myocardial infarction. Thepatient also has an antacid prescribed for a diagnosis of gastric reflux. Whatmust the LPN/LVN remember when administering these drugs? Select allthat apply.1. Clopidogrel can interfere with absorption of the antacid.2. The antacid can interfere with absorption of clopidogrel.3. Clopidogrel can be given with a meal to prevent nausea or upset stomach.4. Clopidogrel should be given 1 hour after giving the antacid.5. Clopidogrel and the antacid are compatible and can be given together.6. Clopidogrel can be given one hour before the antacid.17. Which drug prescription would the nurse be sure to question for a patientdiagnosed with heart failure?1. Carvedilol 3.125 mg orally twice a day2. Lisinopril 5 mg orally once a day3. Digoxin 1.25 mg orally once a day4. Isosorbide dinitrate 20 mg orally twice a day18. The RN is supervising a student nurse caring for a patient withhypertension. The health care provider prescribed enalapril 2.5 mg orallytwice a day. The student tells the nurse that the patient has swelling aroundthe eyes and lips. What does the nurse tell the student is the first best action?1. Assess the patient's ability to speak and breathe.2. Have the student apply ice to the patient's eyes and lips.3. Check the patient's white blood cell count.4. Instruct the student to check the patient's vital signs.19. A patient with hypertension is prescribed atenolol 25 mg orally once a day.Which change would be most important for the nurse report to the healthcare provider (HCP) after the patient begins taking this drug?1. Heart rate of 58 beats/min2. Cold hands and feet3. Patient report of depression4. Patient report of tiredness20. The unlicensed assistive personnel reports to the nurse that a patient withhypertension is experiencing a drop in blood pressure when sitting up afterreceiving his morning medications. The patient received furosemide 20 mg, amultivitamin, and quinapril 10 mg orally. What side effect does the nurserecognize?1. Hypokalemia2. Hyponatremia3. Photosensitivity3864. Postural hypotension21. The nurse is providing patient teaching for an older adult aboutspironolactone. Which key points would the nurse include? Select all thatapply.1. Avoid the use of salt substitutes.2. Do not consume excessive amounts of foods that are high in potassium.3. Be prepared for a decrease in your urine output.4. This drug works by conserving sodium and excreting potassium.5. Older adults may be more sensitive to the action of this drug.6. As an older adult, you are more likely to experience side effects of thisdrug.22. The RN is preparing to administer drugs to a group of patients. Which drugis most important for the nurse to discuss with the health care providerbefore administration?1. Albuterol for a patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease2. Hydrochlorothiazide for a patient with hypertension3. Ibuprofen for a patient with osteoarthritis4. Methimazole for a patient with hypothyroidism23. A patient has been taking prednisone 20 mg orally each day for 10 days for asevere allergic skin reaction. The patient tells the nurse that she no longerneeds to take the prednisone because she is feeling better and the reaction hascleared up. What is the nurse's best response?1. “After taking this drug for over 1 week, it must be slowly decreased toallow the adrenal glands to begin making cortisol.”2. “When the health care provider (HCP) visits, I will ask if he will write anorder prescribing that this drug be discontinued.”3. “You may need to continue taking the prednisone for another week or twoto be sure that the skin allergic reaction is under control.”4. “Because you have taken prednisone for 10 days, it will be necessary for theHCP to order a topical form of the drug for use as needed.”24. A child with an ear infection is prescribed liquid amoxicillin 20 mg/kg every8 hours. The child weighs 12 kg (26.5 lb). How many milligrams ofamoxicillin will the nurse give with each dose?__________mg25. A patient visits the urgent care clinic with a bacterial respiratory infection.The nurse will anticipate the need for patient teaching about whichmedication?1. Azithromycin2. Amantadine3. Fluconazole3874. Ethambutol26. A patient diagnosed with overactive bladder is prescribed oxybutynin 5 mgorally twice a day. The nurse is providing patient teaching about side effectsof this drug. Which side effects would be included? Select all that apply.1. Diarrhea2. Dry mouth3. Dizziness4. Headache5. Rash6. Constipation27. A patient is prescribed 3000 units of heparin subcutaneously. The drug isavailable in vial of 5000 units/1 mL. How many milliliters will the nurseadminister?__________mL28. The nurse is providing care for a patient with chronic kidney disease whoreceives hemodialysis 3 days a week. As the nurse prepares to administer thepatient's dose of epoetin alfa subcutaneously, the patient asks why the shot isnecessary. What is the nurse's best response?1. “It will help stimulate production of white blood cells to protect you frominfection.”2. “It will help stimulate production of platelets to improve your ability toform clots.”3. “It will help stimulate production of phagocytes to engulf and killbacteria.”4. “It will help stimulate production of red blood cells to increase your redblood cell count.”29. The patient is experiencing nausea due to Ménière disease. For which drugis the nurse most likely to plan patient teaching?1. Promethazine2. Prochlorperazine3. Meclizine4. Granisetron30. The patient is experiencing nausea and vomiting for which the health careprovider has prescribed promethazine 12.5 mg orally four times a day asneeded. Which patient care task would the nurse appropriately delegate tothe unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) before giving this drug?1. Check the patient's temperature, blood pressure, and heart rate.2. Auscultate the patient's abdomen for active bowel sounds.3. Examine the patient's abdomen for any distention.4. Ask the patient about constipation or difficulty swallowing.38831. The nurse assigns an LPN/LVN to administer prochlorperazine 10 mg orallyto an older adult patient experiencing nausea. Which specific instructionwould the nurse give the LPN/LVN regarding monitoring this patient afterthe drug has been given?1. “You should expect the patient's bowel sounds to decrease after he takesthis drug.”2. “Be sure to monitor his level of consciousness and watch for sedation.”3. “Apply oxygen by nasal cannula in case his respiratory rate decreases.”4. “The patient should be able to ambulate on his own to the bathroom.”32. The health care provider (HCP) prescribes a bisacodyl 10 mg suppositoryrectally for an older adult who has not had a bowel movement for over 5days. Which actions are accurate when the nurse administers this drugrectally? Select all that apply.1. Explain the procedure and include how long the drug must be held in therectum.2. Bring the drug, some lubricant, and a pair of disposable gloves to thebedside.3. Place the patient in prone position.4. Provide privacy by closing doors or pulling curtains.5. Remove the suppository wrapping and coat the blunt end with lubricant.6. Have the patient take a deep breath and push the suppository 1 inch(2.5 cm) into the rectum.33. A patient with diarrhea has been prescribed loperamide 2 mg orally aftereach unformed stool. Which laboratory value will be most important for thenurse to monitor for this patient?1. Serum sodium2. Serum potassium3. Urine protein4. Urine nitrogen34. The RN is preparing to administer drugs to a group of patients withgastrointestinal disorders. Which drug is most important to discuss with thehealth care provider before administration?1. Omeprazole for patient with peptic ulcer disease (PUD)2. Ranitidine for patient with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)3. Diphenoxylate with atropine for patient with constipation4. Ondansetron for patient with nausea due to chemotherapy35. The RN is caring for a patient in the emergency department with severechest pain for which the health care provider has prescribed morphine 2 mgIV push. Morphine is available in prefilled syringes with 4 mg/mL. Howmany milliliters does the nurse administer?389__________ mL36. During a check-up at the health care provider's (HCP’s) office, a male patienttells the nurse that he is having difficulty getting and keeping an erection.The HCP diagnoses the patient with erectile dysfunction (ED) and prescribessildenafil 50 mg orally once daily 30 minutes to 1 hour before sexual activity.Which are key teaching points about this drug? Select all that apply.1. The drug will have no effect without sexual stimulation.2. Notify the HCP if the patient experiences an erection lasting longer than 2hours.3. If a prolonged and painful erection occurs, be sure to notify the HCP.4. The action of sildenafil last up to 36 hours.5. The patient should not take sildenafil while taking nitrate drugs.6. Consuming high-fat meals may delay maximum effectiveness of this drug.37. A patient with pulmonary edema is prescribed furosemide 60 mg IV push.The drug comes in a 10-mL vial with a concentration of 10 mg/mL. Howmany milliliters will the nurse administer?__________ mL390Answer Key1. Ans: 1 Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic often used to treathypertension. An adverse effect of these diuretics is that when Na+reabsorption is blocked by thiazide diuretics, this increases Na+ delivery tothe cortical collecting duct and increases Na+ reabsorption in this segment ofthe nephron. Because Na+ reabsorption is coupled to K+ secretion in thecortical collecting duct, these drugs can lead to excessive K+ secretion andhypokalemia ([K+] in extracellular fluid is too low). The same is true of loopdiuretics (e.g., furosemide). Thiazide and loop diuretics may be combinedwith potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone) to counteract thispossibility. The other actions are also appropriate for this patient but are notas urgent. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 3 A drug's plasma half-life depends on how quickly the drug iseliminated from the plasma. The half-life of a given medication is how long ittakes for the body to get rid of half of the dose. If a drug with a long half-lifeis given too often or at short intervals, its level can become so high that it istoxic. Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 3 LPN/LVNs are licensed and therefore responsible for their ownpractice. Their scope of practice includes administration of medications. TheRN team leader is responsible for supervision as well as making assignmentsfor LPN/LVNs (team leaders also make assignments for other RNs on theteam). Delegation of checking and recording vital signs is appropriate for theUAPs. The LPN/LVN could perform the dressing change, but the RN wouldassign, not delegate, the task. Focus: Assignment.4. Ans: 4 When mixing two different type of insulin in the same syringe, injectboth bottles with the amount of air equal to the dose of that insulin. Thendraw up the short-acting insulin first. Regular insulin is short acting. NPHinsulin is an intermediate-acting insulin. Take care not to inject any regularinsulin into the NPH bottle. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 2 Glyburide is a sulfonylurea antidiabetic drug. Its action is to lowerblood glucose levels by triggering the beta cells of the pancreas to release thesmall amount of preformed insulin present in the beta cells. Acarbose is analpha-glucosidase inhibiting drug. Its action is to slow the digestion ofdietary starches and other carbohydrates by inhibiting an enzyme that breaksthem down into glucose. The result of this action is that blood glucose doesnot rise as far or as fast after a meal. Drugs from this class do not causehypoglycemia when taken as the only therapy for diabetes. Focus:Prioritization.6. Ans: 1 Miglitol is an alpha-glucosidase inhibiting drug. Make certain thepatient's meal is actually on the unit before giving the drug. Give the drugwith the first bite of the meal. The action of the drug is quick and brief. If the391drug is taken too long before the meal is eaten, it will not prevent thecarbohydrates from being absorbed, and the patient's blood glucose level willrise. The other teaching is also appropriate for diabetics but not specific to theeffectiveness of miglitol. Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 2 Prefilled insulin syringes, cartridges, and pens should be storedupright rather than lying flat. The needle must point upward. Focus:Prioritization.8. Ans: 2 Glipizide is a second-generation sulfonylurea antidiabetic drug. Thesedrugs are contraindicated for breast-feeding mothers because they enter themilk and increase the infant's risk for hypoglycemia. Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 2.5 mg/min 5 mg in 5 mL = 5 mL / 2 min = 2.5 mL/min. Focus:Prioritization.10. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 Amlodipine is a calcium channel blocker with side effectsthat include peripheral and pulmonary edema, weight gain, decreased heartrate (bradycardia), and decreased blood pressure (hypotension). The nursewould be sure to get a baseline for each of these parameters and then be sureto assess for each regularly after administering the drug. Althoughrespirations and body temperature are parts of vital sign assessment, they arenot as high a priority because they are not usually affected byantihypertensive drugs. Focus: Prioritization.11. Ans: 2, 3, 5, 6 After the first dose of most antihypertensive drugs, dizziness isa common side effect. The patient should call for help when getting out ofbed, and the call light should be within easy reach. The patient should riseslowly, sitting on the side of the bed before standing, and then can be assistedto the bathroom. The UAP's scope of practice includes these actions. Patientsare not restricted to bed rest or kept in a supine (flat) position, and side railsare not all kept up for safety of the patient. Assessment is not within thescope of practice for a UAP. However, the RN could instruct the UAP to askthe patient about dizziness before and during ambulation and then reportany dizziness immediately to the RN. Focus: Delegation; Test Taking Tip:The nurse must be aware of the scope of practice for a UAP to understandwhich patient care tasks may be delegated. Remember that the nurse may notdelegate tasks such as assessment, teaching, evaluating, or administeringdrugs to a UAP.12. Ans: 2 Salmeterol is a LABA and is used to prevent episodes of shortness ofbreath. When a patient becomes suddenly short of breath, the drug of choicewould be a SABA such as albuterol. Statements 1, 3, and 4 all demonstratecorrect understanding of how to use an aerosol inhaler. An older adult maybe more sensitive to cardiac effects of these drugs and should check the heartrate before and after each dose. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Thenurse must know the differences between SABA and LABA drugs, includinghow they work and why they are prescribed, to be able to assess the patient'sunderstanding of these drugs and determine if additional teaching is392required.13. Ans: 3 Side effects of inhaled anti-inflammatory drugs include leaving a badtaste in the mouth after use and increased risk for oral candidiasis (thrush).Rinsing with water or mouthwash helps remove the drug from the mouthand reduce the bad taste and oral infection risk. 1, 2, and 4 are all actions thatare within the scope of practice for the RN. Assisting the patient to rinse themouth after administration of these drugs is within the scope of practice for aUAP. Focus: Delegation.14. Ans: 4 Patients who are prescribed statin drugs such as atorvastatin candevelop the adverse effect of rhabdomyolysis. Signs and symptoms includegeneral muscle soreness, muscle pain, weakness, vomiting, stomach pain,and brown urine. When a patient develops these signs and symptoms, thedrug needs to be discontinued and another type of antilipidemic drugprescribed. Upset stomach and constipation are common side effect of statindrugs but are not adverse effects. Bloating is a more common side effect ofthe bile acid sequestrant type of antilipidemic drug. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 1 Apixaban is a direct thrombin inhibitor. Bleeding from the gums is aside effect of these drugs. The nurse should be notified of any bleeding sothat she or he can assess this effect. Instructing and teaching are not withinthe scope of practice for a UAP, but the UAP can remind patients about whatthe RN has taught. Apixaban does not require laboratory monitoring. Focus:Supervision.16. Ans: 2, 3, 6 Antacids can interfere with absorption of clopidogrel (anantiplatelet drug) and many other drugs. Clopidogrel does not interfere withabsorption of antacids. Side effects of antiplatelet drugs include nausea andupset stomach, which can be minimized by given the drug with or just after ameal. Antiplatelet drugs should be given 2 hours after or 1 hour before anantacid. Focus: Assignment.17. Ans: 3 Digoxin maintenance doses are very low (0.1 to 0.375 mg per dayorally). This dosage is 10 times what a maintenance dose should be and couldcause adverse, even life-threatening, effects. Options 1, 2, and 4 all includedosages within the normal limits. Focus: Prioritization.18. Ans: 1 Enalapril is an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor.Swelling of the eyes, mouth, and tongue may indicate angioedema, which isan adverse effect of ACE inhibitors. This can lead to swelling of the trachea,which interferes with breathing and can be life threatening. After the nurseassesses the patient's breathing, the health care provider should be notified.Ice may help reduce swelling but is not a priority at this time. Checking thewhite blood cell count, especially neutrophils, is important if neutropenia issuspected. Checking vital signs is a good idea but not the highest priority inthis situation. Focus: Prioritization, Supervision.19. Ans: 3 Atenolol is a beta-blocker. Depression is a side effect of beta-blockers.These drugs may cause first-time depression or may cause existing393depression to worsen. Decreased heart rate and blood pressure are expectedresponses to beta-blockers. Bradycardia, cold hands and feet, and tirednessare expected side effects of beta-blockers and should be monitored but are notas urgent and often do not require changes in the treatment plan. Focus:Prioritization.20. Ans: 4 Furosemide is a loop diuretic, and quinapril is an angiotensinconvertingenzyme inhibitor. Both lower blood pressure, and patients mayexperience a drop in blood pressure when sitting or standing, which is aclassical sign of postural hypotension. Signs of low potassium include drymouth, muscle cramps, and irregular heartbeat, and signs of low sodiuminclude confusion, seizures, decreased mental activity, and weakness orfatigue. Photosensitivity is a side effect of furosemide, but it is increasedsensitivity to sunlight. Focus: Prioritization, Supervision.21. Ans: 1, 2, 5, 6 Spironolactone is a potassium-sparing diuretic, so patientsshould avoid excessive intake of foods high in potassium such as bananas,broccoli, and spinach. Salt substitutes should also be avoided because thesodium is replaced with potassium. Urine output should increase, notdecrease. The drug works by increasing excretion of water and sodium, butnot potassium, in urine. Older adults are more sensitive to the action of thisdrug and are also more likely to experience side effects. Focus: Prioritization.22. Ans: 4 Methimazole is a thyroid-suppressing drug, which would makehypothyroidism worse. An appropriate drug for hypothyroidism would be athyroid replacement drug such as levothyroxine. Options 1, 2, and 3 includeappropriate drugs for the conditions listed. Focus: Prioritization.23. Ans: 1 Prednisone is a corticosteroid drug that is similar to natural cortisolsecreted by the adrenal glands. The amount of cortisol made each day isinfluenced by the amount circulating in the blood. When a patient takes thisdrug, the adrenal glands reduce production of cortisol. After taking the drugfor more than 1 week, it is necessary to taper the drug before stopping it togive the adrenal glands time to produce more cortisol. The HCP would notsuddenly discontinue the drug or continue it at the same level when it is nolonger needed. A topical form of the drug would not be needed. Focus:Prioritization.24. Ans: 240 mg 20 mg/kg × 12 kg = 240 mg. Focus: Prioritization.25. Ans: 1 Azithromycin is an antibacterial drug. Amantadine is antiviral,fluconazole antifungal, and ethambutol antitubercular. Focus: Prioritization.26. Ans: 2, 3, 4, 6 Oxybutynin is an anticholinergic drug used to treat overactivebladder. It inhibits the neurotransmitter acetylcholine which results indecreased secretions and can cause the side effects of dry mouth and eyes,headaches, dizziness, and constipation. Diarrhea and rash are not commonside effects of this drug. Focus: Prioritization.27. Ans: 0.6 mL Need 3000 units/X mL: Have 5000units/1 mL = 3/5 = 6/10 = 0.6 mL. Focus: Prioritization.39428. Ans: 4 Epoetin alfa is a colony-stimulating factor, an erythropoiesisstimulatingagent that helps stimulate production of red blood cells, oftenused for patients who have chronic kidney disease, anemia fromchemotherapy, or need to increase the RBC count before surgery. Anothertype of colony-stimulating factor is oprelvekin, a thrombopoiesis-stimulatingagent that helps increase platelet counts. Both types of colony-stimulatingfactors are used to decrease the need for transfusion of blood and bloodproducts. Focus: Prioritization.29. Ans: 3 Meclizine is an antihistamine antiemetic drug that is prescribed forlabyrinth disorders, including motion sickness and Ménière disease.Promethazine and prochlorperazine are phenothiazine antiemetic drugs withsedating effects that help to control sensations of nausea. Granisetron is a5HT3-receptor antagonist antiemetic drug commonly used to manage nauseaand vomiting associated with cancer chemotherapy. Focus: Prioritization.30. Ans: 1 Checking and recording vital signs for patients falls within the scopeof practice for a UAP. Auscultating, examining, and asking questions aboutpatient history remain within the scope of practice for a nurse and should notbe delegated to UAP. Focus: Delegation.31. Ans: 2 Prochlorperazine is a phenothiazine antiemetic drug. These drugscommonly have sedation as a side effect, and the sedation (especially in olderadults) is what helps control the sensation of nausea when they are given to apatient. Bowel sounds should not change after this drug. Although the nurseshould monitor for respiratory depression, oxygen is not necessary unless thepatient experiences respiratory difficulties. Because of the sedation effects ofthis drug, a patient should be instructed to call for help and be assisted toambulate to the bathroom at least until the effects of the drug on a patient areknown. Focus: Assignment, Supervision.32. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 6 Statements 1, 2, 4, and 6 are accurate with regard toadministering a rectal suppository. The best position to place a patient in foradministering a suppository is left Sims. Only a small amount of lubricantshould be used to coat the pointed end of the suppository, and a smallamount of lubricant should also be used to coat the end of the finger that thenurse will use to insert the suppository. Focus: Prioritization.33. Ans: 2 Patients with diarrhea have increased water in bowel movements aswell as increased volume and frequency of stools. A common side effect ofdiarrhea is electrolyte imbalance, especially low potassium (hypokalemia), sothe nurse must monitor this laboratory value. Even small changes inpotassium level may cause potentially life-threatening problems such asdysrhythmias. Focus: Prioritization.34. Ans: 3 Diphenoxylate with atropine is an antimotility drug commonly usedto treat diarrhea. The actions of this drug would not relieve a patient'sconstipation but would likely make it much worse. Omeprazole is a protonpump inhibitor often used to treat PUD and GERD, ranitidine is a histamine2395blocker used to treat GERD and PUD, and ondansetron is a 5H3-receptorantagonist used to treat nausea caused by chemotherapy. Appropriate drugsto treat constipation include emollient stool softeners (e.g., docusate),stimulants (e.g., bisacodyl), and osmotic laxatives (e.g., lactulose). Focus:Prioritization.35. Ans: 0.5 mL Need 2 mg/X mL: Have 4 mg/1 mL = 2/4 = 1/2 = 0.5 mL. Focus:Prioritization.36. Ans: 1, 3, 5, 6 Sildenafil requires sexual stimulation to work. The HCPshould be notified for erections lasting longer than 4 hours as well as painfulprolonged erections (priapism). The action of sildenafil lasts about 4 hours(vardenafil's action can last up to 36 hours). Use of nitrate drugs along withsildenafil can lead to severe hypotension, and consuming high-fat meals cancause a delay in the maximum effect of this drug. Focus: Prioritization.37. Ans: 6 mL Need 60 mg/X mL: Have 10 mg/1 mL = 6/1 = 6 mL. Focus:Prioritization.396C H A P T E R 2 1397Emergencies and Disasters398Questions1. A client presents to triage with fever, myalgia, severe headache, abdominalpain, vomiting, diarrhea, and unexplained bruising that started afterreturning from Africa. The triage nurse suspects, but is unsure, that the clientmay have Ebola. What should the nurse do first?1. Delay any additional assessment or questioning and don full personalprotective equipment.2. Isolate the client in a private room and initiate standard, contact, anddroplet precautions.3. Direct all clients and staff out of the triage area and call the infection controldepartment.4. Continue assessment and questioning to determine the likelihood ofexposure to Ebola.2. An emergency department clinical nurse specialist is training staff in how todon and doff personal protective equipment (PPE) when caring for clientswith infections, such as Ebola. Which staff member has demonstrated themost grievous error during the practice session?1. Triage nurse forgets to perform hand hygiene before donning PPE.2. Unlicensed assistive personnel performs self-inspection; then begins to doffPPE.3. Health care provider forgets to wipe shoes with disinfectant after doffingshoe covers.4. Emergency medical technician doffs both pairs of gloves first.3. The charge nurse in an emergency department (ED) and must assign two staffmembers to cover the triage area. Which team is the most appropriate for thisassignment?1. An advanced practice nurse and an experienced RN2. An experienced LPN/LVN and an inexperienced RN3. An experienced RN and an inexperienced RN4. An experienced RN and an experienced unlicensed assistive personnel(UAP)4. The nurse is working in the triage area of an emergency department, and thefollowing four clients approach the triage desk at the same time. List theorder in which the nurse will assess these clients.1. An ambulatory, dazed 25-year-old man with a bandaged head wound2. An irritable newborn with a fever, petechiae, and nuchal rigidity3. A 35-year-old jogger with a twisted ankle who has a pedal pulse and nodeformity4. A 50-year-old woman with moderate abdominal pain and occasional399vomiting_____, _____, _____, _____5. When a primary survey of a trauma client is conducted, what is one of thepriority actions that would be performed first?1. Obtain a complete set of vital sign measurements.2. Palpate and auscultate the abdomen.3. Perform a brief neurologic assessment.4. Check the pulse oximetry reading.6. A 56-year-old client comes to the triage area with left-sided chest pain,diaphoresis, and dizziness. What is the priority action?1. Initiate continuous electrocardiographic monitoring.2. Notify the emergency department health care provider.3. Administer oxygen via nasal cannula.4. Draw blood and establish IV access.7. The client's blood alcohol level is 0.45%. Based on this information, what isthe priority nursing concept that underlies emergency medical and nursinginterventions for this client?1. Cognition2. Addiction3. Gas exchange4. Functional ability8. A client comes to the emergency department and reports nausea, vomiting,colicky abdominal pain, fever, and tachycardia. The health care providerinforms the nurse that the client probably has a strangulated intestinalobstruction with perforation. What diagnostic testing and interventions doesthe nurse anticipate for this emergency condition? Select all that apply.1. Preparation for surgery2. Barium enema examination3. Nasogastric (NG) tube insertion4. Abdominal radiography5. IV fluid administration6. IV administration of broad-spectrum antibiotics9. It is the summer season, and clients with signs and symptoms of heat-relatedillness come to the emergency department. Which client needs attention first?1. Older adult reports dizziness and syncope after standing in the sun forseveral hours to view a parade2. Marathon runner reports severe leg cramps and nausea and showstachycardia, diaphoresis, pallor, and weakness3. Healthy homemaker reports that air conditioner has been broken for days;400she has tachypnea, hypotension, fatigue, and profuse diaphoresis4. Homeless person displays altered mental status, poor muscle coordination,and hot, dry, ashen skin; duration of heat exposure is unknown10. The nurse responds to a call for help from the emergency departmentwaiting room. An older adult client is lying on the floor. List the order inwhich the nurse must carry out the following actions.1. Perform the chin lift or jaw thrust maneuver.2. Establish unresponsiveness.3. Initiate cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).4. Call for help and activate the code team.5. Instruct unlicensed assistive personnel to get the crash cart._____, _____, _____, _____, _____11. Emergency medical services has transported a client with severe chest pain.As the client is being transferred to the emergency stretcher, the nurse notesunresponsiveness, cessation of breathing, and no palpable pulse. Which taskis appropriate to delegate to the unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Performing chest compressions2. Initiating bag-valve mask ventilation3. Assisting with oral intubation4. Placing the defibrillator pads12. Tetanus immunizations are routinely administered during childhood and inthe emergency department (ED) for clients who sustain wounds. Althoughthe incidence of tetanus has decreased, there is still a danger. Which clientrepresents the group that is most vulnerable for risk?1. Child who helps with the farm work sustained scratches while feeding theanimals2. Newborn infant delivered in the emergency department; mother had noprenatal care3. Older adult who lives alone sustained a minor cut while cleaning thebasement4. Young adult who works in an auto repair shop sustained a deep cut on ametal edge13. A healthy but anxious 24-year-old college student reports tinglingsensations, palpitations, and sore chest muscles. Deep, rapid breathing andcarpal spasms are noted. What priority action should the nurse take?1. Notify the health care provider immediately.2. Administer supplemental oxygen.3. Have the student breathe into a paper bag.4. Obtain an order for an anxiolytic medication.14. An experienced traveling nurse has been assigned to work in the emergency401department (ED); however, this is the nurse's first week on the job. Whicharea of the ED is the most appropriate assignment for this nurse?1. Trauma team2. Triage3. Ambulatory or fast-track clinic4. Pediatric medicine team15. The nurse and group of friends are at the lake. Suddenly, someone says,“Look across the lake! It looks like someone might be drowning out there!”What is the nurse's first action?1. Determine who is the strongest swimmer in the group.2. Direct someone to locate a cell phone and call 911.3. Find a boat, raft, or some type of flotation device.4. Use a pair of binoculars and look across the lake.16. In the care of a client who has experienced sexual assault, which task is mostappropriate for an LPN/LVN to perform?1. Assessing immediate emotional state and physical injuries2. Collecting hair samples, saliva specimens, and scrapings beneathfingernails3. Providing emotional support and supportive communication4. Ensuring that the chain of custody of evidence is maintained17. The nurse is caring for a client with frostbite to the feet. Place the followinginterventions in the correct order.1. Apply a loose, sterile, bulky dressing.2. Give pain medication.3. Remove the client from the cold environment.4. Immerse the feet in warm water of 105° to 115°F (40.6° to 46.1°C).5. Monitor for compartment syndrome._____, _____, _____, _____, _____18. The LPN/LVN is performing care for a client who sustained an amputationof the first and second digits in a chainsaw accident. What instructions wouldthe RN give to the LPN/LVN?1. Clean the amputated digits and the hand with a povidone-iodine andnormal saline solution; then wrap with gauze.2. Clean the amputated digits, wrap them in gauze, and place cleansed digitsdirectly into an ice slurry.3. Clean the amputated digits with saline, wrap in moist gauze, seal in aplastic bag, and place in ice slurry.4. Clean the digits with sterile normal saline and submerge the digits in sterilenormal saline in a sterile cup.40219. The nurse is giving discharge instructions to a woman who has been treatedfor contusions and bruises sustained during an episode of domestic violence.What is the priority intervention for this client?1. Encourage client to go to a safe house.2. Make a referral to a counselor.3. Advise the client about contacting the police.4. Make an appointment to follow up on the injuries.20. A newly graduated nurse overhears a senior emergency department nursemaking sarcastic remarks toward a medical student and refusing to help thestudent find the equipment for a nonemergent client procedure. What shouldthe new nurse do first?1. Step in and offer to assist the medical student because the other nurse isunwilling.2. Confront the senior nurse and indicate that an apology is the right thing todo.3. Observe the situation and then report behaviors of both parties to thecharge nurse.4. Watch and observe the dynamics; the scenario is probably typical of unitnorms.21. The nurse notifies the emergency department (ED) health care provider(HCP) about a client who reports abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, andfever. The abdomen is distended, rigid, and boardlike, and there is reboundtenderness. Later the nurse sees that the client is to be discharged with afollow-up appointment in the morning. The nurse reexamines the client andthe symptoms seem worse. What should the nurse do first?1. Contact the nursing supervisor and express concerns.2. Express findings and concerns to the HCP.3. Discharge the client but stress the importance of follow-up.4. Follow the discharge orders and write an incident report.22. A confused client admits to frequently drinking alcohol. The emergencydepartment health care provider (HCP) makes a preliminary diagnosis ofWernicke encephalopathy. Which medication does the nurse anticipate thatthe HCP will prescribe initially?1. Glucagon IV2. Naltrexone IM3. Thiamine IV4. Naloxone IV23. When an unexpected death occurs in the emergency department, which taskis most appropriate to delegate to the unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)?1. Escorting the family to a place of privacy4032. Accompanying organ donor specialist to talk to family3. Assisting with postmortem care4. Helping the family to collect belongings24. After emergency endotracheal intubation, the health care team and the nursemust verify tube placement before securing the tube. What is the mostaccurate bedside assessment that can be performed immediately after thetube is placed?1. Visualize the movement of the thoracic cage.2. Auscultate the chest during assisted ventilation.3. Confirm that the breath sounds are equal and bilateral.4. Check exhaled carbon dioxide levels with capnography.25. A man with a known history of alcohol abuse has been in police custody for48 hours. Initially, anxiety, sweating, and tremors were noted. Nowdisorientation, hallucination, and hyperreactivity are observed. The medicaldiagnosis is delirium tremens. What is the priority nursing concept toconsider in planning interventions for this emergency condition?1. Safety2. Psychosis3. Thermoregulation4. Addiction26. The nurse is assigned to telephone triage. A client who was just stung by acommon honeybee calls for advice. Which question would the nurse askfirst?1. “Is this the first time you have been stung by a bee or wasp?”2. “Do you have access to and know how to use an epinephrine autoinjector?”3. “What type of first aid measures have you tried?”4. “Are you having any facial swelling, wheezing, or shortness of breath?”27. A victim of heat stroke arrives in the emergency department. His skin is hotand dry; his body temperature is 105°F (40.6°C). He is confused anddemonstrates bizarre behavior. His blood pressure is 85/60 mm Hg, pulse 130beats/min, and respirations are 40 breaths/min. Which task should beassigned to an experienced LPN/LVN?1. Insert a rectal probe to measure core body temperature.2. Administer aspirin or another antipyretic.3. Insert an indwelling urinary drainage catheter.4. Assess respiratory effort, hemodynamics, and mental status.28. The nurse is assessing a client who has sustained a cat bite to the left hand.The cat's immunizations are up to date. The date of the client's last tetanusshot is unknown. What is the priority concern?1. Treating infection specific to cat bites4042. Suturing the puncture wounds3. Administering tetanus vaccine4. Maintaining mobility of finger joints29. The following clients come to the emergency department triage deskreporting acute abdominal pain. Which client has the most severe condition?1. A 35-year-old man reporting severe intermittent cramps with threeepisodes of watery diarrhea 2 hours after eating2. An 11-year-old boy with a low-grade fever, right lower quadranttenderness, nausea, and anorexia for the past 2 days3. A 23-year-old woman reporting dizziness and severe left lower quadrantpain who states she is possibly pregnant4. A 50-year-old woman who reports gnawing midepigastric pain that isworse between meals and during the night30. The nurse manager decides to form a committee to address the issue ofviolence against emergency department (ED) personnel. Which combinationof employees would be best suited to fulfill this assignment?1. ED physicians and charge nurses2. Experienced RNs and experienced paramedics3. RNs, LPNs/LVNs, and unlicensed assistive personnel4. At least one person from all ED groups31. The nurse is caring for a client with multiple injuries sustained during ahead-on car collision. Which assessment finding takes priority?1. A deviated trachea2. Unequal pupils3. Ecchymosis in the flank area4. Irregular apical pulse32. A client involved in a one-car rollover comes in with multiple injuries. Listin order of priority the interventions that must be initiated for this client.1. Secure two large-bore IV lines and infuse normal saline.2. Use the chin lift or jaw thrust maneuver to open the airway.3. Assess for spontaneous respirations.4. Give supplemental oxygen via mask.5. Obtain a full set of vital sign measurements.6. Remove or cut away the client's clothing._____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____33. A young woman is brought to the emergency department (ED) byemergency medical services (EMS). EMS reports they were called because thewoman has been depressed and threatening to commit suicide. On arrival tothe ED, the woman is confused; her speech is slurred, and there is vomit onher clothes. EMS found several empty prescription bottles at the house. What405are the priority interventions for this client?1. Identify toxic substances by history and analysis of blood, urine, andgastric contents.2. Initiate supportive care, such as checking airway and giving oxygen and IVfluids.3. Reduce absorption by giving activated charcoal or performing gastriclavage.4. Promote poison removal using drugs to facilitate excretion or by startinghemodialysis.34. A group of people arrive at the emergency department by private car. Theyall have extreme periorbital swelling, coughing, and tightness in the throat.There is a strong odor emanating from their clothes. They report exposure toa “gas bomb” that was set off in their house. What is the priority action?1. Measure vital signs and listen to lung sounds.2. Direct clients to the decontamination area.3. Alert security about possible terrorism activity.4. Direct clients to cold or clean zones for immediate treatment.35. In the work setting, what is the nurse's primary responsibility in preparingfor management of disasters, including natural disasters and bioterrorismincidents?1. Knowing the agency's emergency response plan2. Being aware of the signs and symptoms of potential agents of bioterrorism3. Knowing how and what to report to the Centers for Disease Control andPrevention4. Making ethical decisions about exposing self to potentially lethalsubstances36. Emergency and ambulatory care nurses are among the first health careworkers to encounter victims of a bioterrorist attack. List in order of prioritythe actions that should be taken by emergency department staff in the eventof a biochemical incident.1. Report to public health department or Centers for Disease Control andPrevention per protocol.2. Decontaminate the affected individuals in a separate area.3. Protect the environment for the safety of personnel and nonaffected clients.4. Don personal protective equipment.5. Perform triage according to protocol._____, _____, _____, _____, _____37. According to The Joint Commission, hospitals are required to formemergency management committees to periodically exercise the disasteroperations plan. Hospital administration has selected various health careproviders (HCPs) to join the committee. Members from which other key406departments should be included? Select all that apply.1. Security and communications2. Nursing and unlicensed assistive personnel3. Laboratory and diagnostic services4. Medical and information technology5. Maintenance and engineering6. Physical therapy and occupational therapy38. A newly hired emergency department (ED) clinical nurse specialist (CNS) isreviewing the hospital's disaster plan and finds that it has not been reviewedor revised for 3 years. Which finding will be most important for the CNS toaddress related to the status of the disaster plan?1. Stockpiles of antibiotics and resuscitation equipment may be depleted.2. Current staff is unlikely to have training and practice in using the plan.3. Resources within and outside of the hospital are likely to have changed.4. Surrounding communities are at increased risk for technologic disasters.39. The nurse is talking to a group of people about an industrial explosion inwhich many people were killed or injured. Which individual has the greatestrisk for psychiatric difficulties, such as post-traumatic stress disorder, relatedto the incident?1. Individual who repeatedly watched television coverage of the event2. Person who recently learned that her son was killed in the incident3. Individual who witnessed the death of a co-worker during the explosion4. Person who was injured and trapped for several hours before rescue40. Identify the five most critical elements in performing disaster triage formultiple victims.1. Obtain past medical and surgical histories.2. Check airway, breathing, and circulation.3. Assess the level of consciousness.4. Visually inspect for gross deformities, bleeding, and obvious injuries.5. Note the color, presence of moisture, and temperature of the skin.6. Check vital signs, including pulse and respirations._____, _____, _____, _____, _____41. The nurse is working in a small rural community hospital. There is a fire in alocal church, and six injured clients have arrived at the hospital. Many othersare expected to arrive soon, and other hospitals are 5 hours away. Usingdisaster triage principles, place the following six clients in the order in whichthey should receive medical attention, with 1 being the first to receiveattention and 6 being the last to receive attention.1. A 52-year-old man in full cardiac arrest who has been receivingcardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) continuously for the past 60 minutes4072. A firefighter who is showing combative behavior and has respiratorystridor3. A 60-year-old woman with full-thickness burns to the hands and forearms4. A teenager with a crushed leg that is very swollen; he is anxious and hastachycardia5. A 3-year-old child with respiratory distress and burns over more than 70%of the anterior body6. A 12-year-old child with wheezing and very labored respirationsunrelieved by an asthma inhaler_____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____42. The nurse is caring for a client who is on the cardiac monitor because ofthese symptoms: syncope, dizziness, and intermittent episodes ofpalpitations. Below is a display of what the nurse sees on the cardiac monitor.What should the nurse do first?1. Call the Rapid Response Team.2. Obtain the automated external defibrillator.3. Assess the client and take vital signs.4. Check the adherence of the gel pads on the chest.408Answer Key1. Ans: 2 First, the nurse would isolate the client and initiate standard, contact,and droplet precautions. The person can be taken out of isolation at any timeif the health care provider (HCP) determines that the client does not haveEbola, but in the meantime, isolation precautions protect others. After theclient is in isolation, the nurse's next actions are based on the acuity of theclient. If the client needs immediate assistance, the nurse would alert the HCPand charge nurse. Selected team members would don personal protectiveequipment, and care would be initiated. The infection control departmentshould be notified as soon as possible so that system-wide measures can beactivated as needed. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Safety is one ofthe concepts that is used to identify priorities. In this case, recognize that thesafety priority is for other people and the environment.2. Ans: 4 All team members have made errors, but removing both pairs ofgloves puts the emergency medical technician at the greatest risk because theouter surfaces of the remaining PPE are considered contaminated. Accordingto the latest recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control andPrevention, the flow of donning is as follows: hand hygiene, inner gloves,shoe covers, gown, N95 respirator, hood, outer gloves, face shield, inspection(by self and trained observer), range of motion, and hand hygiene. The flowof doffing is inspection (by self and trained observer), hand hygiene, removeshoe covers, remove outer gloves, inspect inner gloves, remove face shield,hand hygiene, remove hood, hand hygiene, remove gown, hand hygiene,remove inner gloves, hand hygiene, apply new gloves, remove n95 respirator,hand hygiene, disinfect shoes, hand hygiene, remove gloves, hand hygiene,and inspection (by self and trained observer). Focus: Supervision.3. Ans: 1 Triage requires at least one experienced RN. Advanced practice nursescan perform medical screening exams, and this expedites treatment anddecreases overall time spent in the ED. Pairing an experienced RN with aninexperienced RN provides opportunities for mentoring. This would be thesecond-best choice. Pairing an experienced RN with an experienced UAP isan option if licensed staff is unavailable because the UAP can measure vitalsigns and assist in transporting. An LPN/LVN is not qualified to perform theinitial client assessment or decision making, and the expertise of theLPN/LVN could be used elsewhere in a busy ED. Focus: Assignment.4. Ans: 2, 1, 4, 3 An irritable newborn with fever and petechiae should befurther assessed for other signs of meningitis. The client with the headwound needs additional assessment because of the risk for increasedintracranial pressure. The client with moderate abdominal pain is indiscomfort, but her condition is not unstable at this point. For the ankleinjury, medical evaluation could be delayed for 24 to 48 hours if necessary,but the client should receive the appropriate first aid. Focus: Prioritization;409Test Taking Tip: Use knowledge of growth and development and rememberthat newborns have immature immune systems that are readilyoverwhelmed by infection. Any temperature elevation in a neonate isconsidered a life-threatening emergency.5. Ans: 3 A brief neurologic assessment to determine level of consciousness andpupil reaction is part of the primary survey. Measuring vital signs, assessingthe abdomen, and checking pulse oximetry readings are considered part ofthe secondary survey. Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 3 The priority goal is to increase myocardial oxygenation. The otheractions are also appropriate and should be performed immediately afteradministering oxygen. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Remember touse the ABCs (airway, breathing, and circulation) in determining priorities.This is especially important when the client is in critical distress.7. Ans: 3 At a blood alcohol level of 0.45%, the client would demonstraterespiratory depression, stupor, and coma. At 0.05%, client would displayeuphoria and decreased inhibitions; at 0.20%, reduced motor skills andslurred speech occur; and at 0.30%, altered perception and double visionoccur. Focus: Prioritization.8. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 Strangulated intestinal obstruction is a surgical emergency.The NG tube is for decompression of the intestine. Abdominal radiography isthe most useful diagnostic aid. IV fluids are needed to maintain fluid andelectrolyte balance. IV broad-spectrum antibiotics are usually ordered. Abarium enema examination is not ordered if perforation is suspected. Focus:Prioritization.9. Ans: 4 The homeless person has symptoms of heat stroke, a medicalemergency that increases the risk for brain damage. The older adult client isat risk for heat syncope and should be educated to rest in a cool area andavoid future similar situations. The runner is having heat cramps, which canbe managed with rest and fluids. The housewife is experiencing heatexhaustion, and management includes administration of fluids (IV or oral)and cooling measures. Focus: Prioritization.10. Ans: 2, 4, 1, 3, 5 Establish unresponsiveness first. (The client may have fallenand sustained a minor injury.) If the client is unresponsive, get help andactivate the code team. Performing the chin lift or jaw thrust maneuver opensthe airway. The nurse is then responsible for starting CPR. A pocket mask orbag-valve mask is used to deliver rescue breaths. CPR should not beinterrupted until the client recovers or it is determined that all heroic effortshave been exhausted. A crash cart should be at the site when the code teamarrives; however, basic CPR can be effectively performed until the code teamarrives. Focus: Prioritization.11. Ans: 1 UAPs are trained in basic cardiac life support and can perform chestcompressions. The use of the bag-valve mask requires practice, and usually arespiratory therapist will perform this function. The nurse or the respiratory410therapist should provide assistance as needed during intubation. Thedefibrillator pads are clearly marked; however, placement should be done bythe RN or health care provider because of the potential for skin damage andelectrical arcing. Focus: Delegation.12. Ans: 3 Older adults are the most likely to be nonvaccinated orundervaccinated. Tetanus usually occurs when a minor wound getscontaminated by wood, metal, or other organic material. In addition, mostpeople would not seek medical treatment for minor wounds. Farm workoffers many opportunities for injuries, but most children are usuallyimmunized before entering elementary school (the nurse should always ask).Persons with deep cuts from industrial accidents are more likely to present tothe ED for treatment. Neonatal tetanus is more likely to occur inunderdeveloped countries related to poor hygienic conditions during birth.Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 3 The client is hyperventilating secondary to anxiety, and breathinginto a paper bag will allow rebreathing of carbon dioxide. Also, encouragingslow breathing will help. Other treatments such as oxygen administrationand medication may be needed if other causes are identified. Focus:Prioritization.14. Ans: 3 The fast-track clinic deals with clients in relatively stable condition.The triage, trauma, and pediatric medicine areas should be staffed withexperienced nurses who know the hospital routines and policies and canrapidly locate equipment. Focus: Assignment.15. Ans: 4 First, the nurse would gather as much data as possible. In this case,the number of potential victims; distance from shore; hazards or barriers thatmay affect rescue (e.g., water temperature, roughness of waves, wind, orlightning); and resources available to victim(s) or rescuers (e.g., boat, pier,closer rescuers). These data can be reported to the 911 dispatcher and used todecide whether a rescue attempt is reasonably safe for the nurse and thebystanders. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: The step in the nursingprocess is assessment. In this case, assess the multiple factors that affect thesafety of potential victims and rescuers. This data is then used to weighharms and benefits.16. Ans: 3 An LPN/LVN is able to listen and provide emotional support forclients. The other tasks are the responsibility of an RN, or preferably, a sexualassault nurse examiner who has received training in assessing, collecting, andsafeguarding evidence, and caring for assault victims. Focus: Assignment.17. Ans: 3, 2, 4, 1, 5 The client should be removed from the cold environmentfirst. The rewarming process will be painful, so pain medication should begiven before immersing the feet in warm water. A loose, sterile, bulkybandage should be applied to the area after warming to protect the feet. Theclient should be monitored for compartment syndrome every hour afterinitial treatment. Focus: Prioritization.41118. Ans: 3 The correct intervention is to gently cleanse the digits with normalsaline, wrap them in sterile gauze moistened with saline, and place them in aplastic bag or container. The container is then placed in an ice slurry. Focus:Supervision, Knowledge.19. Ans: 1 Safety is a priority for this client, and she should not return to a placewhere violence could recur. The other options are important for the longtermmanagement of this case. Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 1 First, the new nurse steps in and takes action to protect and addressthe needs of the vulnerable persons: the medical student who is being bulliedand the client who needs the procedure. The next step would be to take thesenior nurse aside and discuss the behaviors and how those behaviors impactteam moral and overall client care. It is difficult to approach someone who ismore senior, but the new nurse can use “I” statements, which are lessaccusatory. For example, “I overheard the interaction with the medicalstudent. I stepped into help him, because I felt uncomfortable. I waswondering how you felt.” Observing the dynamics of the scenario isappropriate, and those observations can be shared with the charge nurse orunit manager so that steps can be taken to create a climate ofinterprofessional collaboration. Focus: Prioritization.21. Ans: 2 First, the nurse tries to express concerns to the HCP. The ED can bevery hectic, and the ED staff should work as a team and watch out for eachother as well as the clients. If the HCP refuses to consider concerns, then thenurse may have to contact the nursing supervisor or write an incident report.This client has the signs of peritonitis. If the client dies or has a poor outcome,the nurse is liable for failing to intervene. Focus: Prioritization.22. Ans: 3 Wernicke encephalopathy is caused by a thiamine deficiency andmanifests as confusion, nystagmus, and abnormal ocular movements. It canbe reversed with thiamine. IV glucagon is given if change of mental status iscaused by severe hypoglycemia. Naltrexone is used to decrease the cravingfor alcohol. Naloxone is used to reverse opioid overdose. Focus:Prioritization.23. Ans: 3 Postmortem care requires some turning, cleaning, lifting, and so on,and the UAP is able to assist with these duties. The RN should takeresponsibility for the other tasks to help the family begin the grievingprocess. In cases of questionable death, belongings may be retained forevidence, so the chain of custody would have to be maintained. Focus:Delegation.24. Ans: 4 Checking exhaled carbon dioxide levels is the most accurate way ofimmediately verifying placement. Observing chest movements andauscultating and confirming equal bilateral breath sounds are considered lessaccurate. (Note to student: Possibly, you may see the health care teamauscultating the chest; this is a long-time practice that is quick to perform anddoesn’t harm the client if used in conjunction with other verification412methods.) Radiographic study will verify and document correct placement.Focus: Prioritization.25. Ans: 1 The client demonstrates neurologic hyperreactivity and is on theverge of a seizure. Client safety is the priority. The client needs medicationssuch as chlordiazepoxide to decrease neurologic irritability and phenytoin forseizures. Thiamine is given to correct underlying nutritional deficiency, andhaloperidol may be prescribed for the psychotic symptoms. Focus:Prioritization.26. Ans: 4 First, the nurse would try determine if the client is having a severeallergic reaction to the bee sting. Facial swelling, wheezing, or shortness ofbreath can rapidly progress to a life-threatening airway obstruction. If thesesigns and symptoms are occurring, the nurse would instruct the client to call911 and to use the epinephrine autoinjector if it is available. If the client is nothaving a life-threatening reaction, the nurse could ask other questions todetermine appropriate interventions. Focus: Prioritization.27. Ans: 3 Inserting an indwelling urinary catheter is within the scope ofpractice of an experienced LPN/LVN. Experienced unlicensed assistivepersonnel should be directed to insert the rectal probe to monitor the coretemperature. Initial assessment of new clients and critically ill clients shouldbe performed by the RN. Aspirin and other antipyretics are not given becausethey won’t work to decrease the body temperature and may be harmful. Thecare of this client would also include arterial blood gases; possibleendotracheal intubation; IV fluids; blood for electrolytes, cardiac and liverenzymes, and complete blood count; muscle relaxants (benzodiazepines) ifthe client begins to shiver; monitoring urine output and specific gravity todetermine fluid needs; cooling interventions; and discontinuing coolinginterventions when core body temperature is reduced to 102°F (38.9°C).Focus: Assignment.28. Ans: 1 Cats’ mouths contain a virulent organism, Pasteurella multocida, whichcan lead to septic arthritis or bacteremia. Appropriate first aid includesrigorous washing of the wound site with soap and water to combat infection.Puncture wounds, especially those caused by bites, are usually not sutured.There is also a risk for tendon damage and loss of joint mobility caused bydeep puncture wounds, but an orthopedic surgeon would be consulted afterinitial emergency care is started. A tetanus shot can be given beforedischarge. Focus: Prioritization.29. Ans: 3 The woman with lower left quadrant pain is at risk for ectopicpregnancy. This is a life-threatening condition. The 11-year-old boy needsevaluation to rule out appendicitis. The 35-year-old man has food poisoning,which is usually self-limiting. The woman with midepigastric pain may havean ulcer, but follow-up diagnostic testing and teaching of lifestylemodification can be scheduled with the primary care provider. Focus:Prioritization.41330. Ans: 4 At least one representative from each group should be includedbecause all employees are potential targets for violence in the ED. Focus:Assignment.31. Ans: 1 A deviated trachea is a symptom of tension pneumothorax, whichwill result in respiratory arrest if not corrected. All of the other symptoms arepotentially serious but are of lower priority. Focus: Prioritization.32. Ans: 3, 2, 4, 1, 5, 6 For a trauma client with multiple injuries, manyinterventions (e.g., assessing for spontaneous respirations, performingtechniques to open the airway such as chin lift or jaw thrust, and applyingoxygen) may occur simultaneously as team members assist in theresuscitation A quick assessment of respiratory status precedes intervention.Opening the airway must precede the administration of oxygen because, ifthe airway is closed, the oxygen cannot enter the air passages. Starting IVlines for fluid resuscitation is part of supporting circulation. (Emergencymedical service personnel will usually establish at least one IV line in thefield.) Unlicensed assistive personnel can be directed to obtain and reportvital signs and remove or cut away clothing. Focus: Prioritization.33. Ans: 2 Maintaining airway, oxygenation, and circulation are the priorities.The other steps are also important in managing clients who have ingestedtoxic substances. Focus: Prioritization.34. Ans: 2 Decontamination in a specified area is the priority. Performingassessments delays decontamination and does not protect the totalenvironment. Personnel should don personal protective equipment beforeassisting with decontamination or assessing the clients. The clients mustundergo decontamination before entering cold or clean areas. The nurseshould notify the charge nurse or nurse manager about communicating withsecurity regarding potential terrorist activities. Focus: Prioritization.35. Ans: 1 In preparing for disasters, the RN should be aware of the emergencyresponse plan. The plan gives guidance that includes the roles of teammembers, responsibilities, and mechanisms of reporting. Signs andsymptoms of exposure to many agents will mimic common complaints, suchas flulike symptoms. Discussions with colleagues and supervisors may helpthe individual nurse to sort through ethical dilemmas related to potentialdanger to self. Focus: Prioritization.36. Ans: 3, 4, 2, 5, 1 The first priority is to protect personnel, unaffected clients,bystanders, and the facility. Personal protective gear should be donned bystaff before victims are assessed or treated. Decontamination of victims in aseparate area is followed by triage and treatment. The incident should bereported according to protocol as information about the number of peopleinvolved, history, and signs and symptoms becomes available. Focus:Prioritization.37. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 When the disaster plan is activated, the expectation is that alarge number of clients will arrive who need triage and various levels of care.414Security and communications are essential to the flow of people andinformation in and out of the facility. HCPs, nurses, and unlicensed assistivepersonnel are assigned to care for clients. Laboratory and diagnostic servicesare required for ongoing client care. Accurate records and client tracking isessential during a disaster. Maintenance and engineering are responsible forthe ongoing integrity of the facility's structure. In fact, all hospital personnelare needed in the immediate period after a disaster, but members ofdepartments such as quality improvement, physical therapy, volunteerservices, and occupational therapy are less likely to be performing their usualfunctions. Focus: Assignment.38. Ans: 2 The ED CNS would be most concerned that the staff has not had anytraining or practice opportunities for at least the past 3 years because trainingstaff members is the direct responsibility of the CNS. The Joint Commissionrecommends biannual training practice and rehearsal; training exercises alsoprovide data that can be used to revise and update the plan. The CNS shouldalso alert hospital administration about the need to inventory stockpiles, toconduct an internal and external resource analysis, and to contact publichealth officials about increased risk in surrounding communities. Focus:Supervision.39. Ans: 4 Any of these people may need or benefit from psychiatric counseling.Obviously, there will be variations in previous coping skills and supportsystems; however, a person who experienced a threat to his or her own life isat the greatest risk for psychiatric problems after a disaster incident. Focus:Prioritization.40. Ans: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Quickly assessing respiratory effort, level of consciousness,obvious injuries, appearance of skin (indicative of peripheral perfusion), andvital signs are appropriate for disaster triage. Other information, such asmedical and surgical history, medication history, support systems, and lasttetanus booster, would be collected when the staff has more time andresources. Focus: Prioritization.41. Ans: 6, 2, 4, 3, 5, 1 Treat the 12-year-old child with asthma first by initiatingan albuterol treatment. This action is quick to initiate, and the child or parentcan be instructed to hold the apparatus while the nurse attends to otherclients. The firefighter is in greater respiratory distress than the 12-year-oldchild; however, managing a strong combative client is difficult and timeconsuming (e.g., the 12-year-old could die if too much time is spent trying tocontrol the firefighter). Attend to the teenager with a crush injury next.Anxiety and tachycardia may be caused by pain or stress; however, theswelling suggests hemorrhage. Next attend to the woman with burns on theforearms by providing dressings and pain management. The child with burnsover more than 70% of the anterior body should be given comfort measures;however, the prognosis is very poor. The prognosis for the client in cardiacarrest is also very poor because CPR efforts have been prolonged. Focus:Prioritization.41542. Ans: 3 The nurse recognizes that the monitor is showing sinus rhythm withoccasional premature ventricular contractions (PVCs). The client is likely tobe alert and in no distress. Sometimes people do report the subjectivesensation of “skipped beats.” The nurse would ask the client about subjectivesymptoms and assess for any signs of decreased cardiac output or problemsrelated to decreased perfusion. The nurse would continue to observe theclient. Increase in frequency or duration of PVCs can precede ventriculartachycardia or dysthymias. Focus: Prioritization.416C H A P T E R 2 2417Psychiatric–Mental Health Problems418QuestionsNote: In this chapter, the term “psychiatric nursing assistant” is used, ratherthan the more familiar “unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP).” Differentfacilities and localities use different titles for assistive personnel. The key pointto remember in assigning tasks or making patient assignments is that UAPswho routinely work on a medical-surgical unit will have different skill setsthan psychiatric nursing assistants, who usually work on a psychiatric unit.1. The nurse is working at a community clinic that specializes in assistingpatients who need medication and therapy for mental health disorders.Which patient is the most likely candidate for depot antipsychotic therapy?1. Older man with psychosis secondary to dementia who lives with hisdaughter2. Homeless veteran with schizophrenia who occasional sleeps in a nearbyshelter3. Housewife with bipolar disorder who is prone to psychotic features duringthe manic phase4. Student with recently diagnosed schizophrenia who lives at home with hisparents2. The nurse is caring for patients who have schizophrenia. In addition tomedication, multidisciplinary nondrug therapies are available. What is thenurse's most important role in helping the patients to benefit from thiscomprehensive approach?1. Help identify patients who would benefit from conventionalpsychotherapy.2. Refer patients to a psychiatric nurse specialist for education about thedisease.3. Suggest that patients talk to vocational specialists for additional training.4. Establish a therapeutic relationship with patients and encourageparticipation.3. A patient with a diagnosis of hypochondriasis has made multiple clinic visitsand undergone diagnostic tests for “cancer,” with no evidence of organicdisease. Today he declares, “I have a brain tumor. I can feel it growing. Myappointment is tomorrow, but I can’t wait!” What is the most therapeuticresponse?1. Present reality: “Sir, you have been seen many times in this clinic and hadmany diagnostic tests. The results have always been negative.”2. Encourage expression of feelings: “Let me spend some time with you. Tell419me about what you are feeling and why you think you have a braintumor.”3. Set boundaries: “Sir, I will take your vital signs, but then I am going to callyour case manager so that you can discuss the scheduled appointment.”4. Respect the patient's wishes: “Sir, sit down and I will make sure that yousee the health care provider right away. Don’t worry; we will take care ofyou.”4. A patient who was recently diagnosed with conversion disorder isexperiencing a sudden loss of vision after witnessing a violent fight betweenher husband and adult-age son. What is the priority therapeutic approach touse with this patient?1. Reassure her that her blindness is temporary and will resolve with time.2. Gently point out that she seems to be able to see well enough to functionindependently.3. Encourage expression of feelings and link emotional trauma to theblindness.4. Teach ways to cope with blindness, such as methodically arrangingpersonal items.5. The charge nurse is reviewing the assignment sheet for an acute psychiatricunit. Which experienced team member should be reassigned?1. Male LVN assigned to an older male patient with chronic depression andexcessive rumination2. Young male psychiatric nursing assistant assigned to a female adolescentwith anorexia nervosa3. Female RN assigned to a newly admitted female patient who has commandhallucinations and delusions of persecution4. Older female RN with medical-surgical experience assigned to a malepatient with Alzheimer disease6. The nurse arrives home and finds that a neighbor's (Jane’s) house is on fire. Afireman is physically restraining Jane as she screams and thrashes around toget free to run back into the house. What is the nurse's best action?1. Make eye contact and encourage Jane to verbalize feelings.2. Physically restrain Jane so that the fireman can resume his job.3. Use a firm tone of voice and give Jane simple commands.4. Use a gentle persuading tone and ask Jane to be calm.7. There is a patient on the medical-surgical unit who has been there for severalmonths. He is hostile, rude, and belligerent, and no one likes to interact withhim. How should the charge nurse handle the assignment?1. Rotate the assignment schedule so that no one has to care for him morethan once or twice a week.2. Pair a float nurse and a nursing student and assign the patient to that team420because they will have a fresh perspective toward the patient.3. Identify two or three experienced nurses as primary caregivers and developa plan that includes psychosocial interventions.4. Assign self as primary caregiver and role-model how patients should betreated.8. The charge nurse is reviewing medication prescriptions for several patientson the acute psychiatric unit. Which prescription is the nurse most likely toquestion?1. Fluoxetine for a middle-aged patient with depression2. Chlorpromazine for a young patient with schizophrenia3. Loxapine for an older adult patient with dementia and psychosis4. Lorazepam for a young patient with generalized anxiety disorder9. A patient diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia tells the nurse that, “Dr.Smith has killed several other patients, and now he is trying to kill me.” Whatis the best response?1. “I have worked here a long time. No one has died. You are safe here.”2. “What has Dr. Smith done to make you think he would like to kill you?”3. “All of the staff, including Dr. Smith, are here to ensure your safety.”4. “Whenever you are concerned or nervous, talk to me or any of the nurses.”10. A nursing student reports to the nurse that he has observed several types ofbehavior among the patients. Which patient needs priority assessment?1. A patient who is having command hallucinations2. A patient who is demonstrating clang associations3. A patient who is verbalizing ideas of reference4. A patient who is using neologisms11. The nurse is talking to the primary caregiver of Martha, who was diagnosed8 years ago with Alzheimer disease. The caregiver says, “We love Martha, butmy daughter needs help with her kids, and my husband's health is poor. Ireally need help.” Which member of the health care team should the nurseconsult first?1. Health care provider to review long-term prognosis and new treatments forAlzheimer disease2. Psychiatric clinical nurse specialist to design behavioral modificationtherapies for Martha3. Clinical psychologist to assess for major depression and need for treatmentfor the caregiver4. Social worker to identify and arrange placement for Martha in anacceptable nursing home12. The patient has a panic disorder, and it appears that he is having someproblems controlling his anxiety. Which symptoms are cause for greatest421concern?1. His heart rate is increased, and he reports chest tightness.2. He demonstrates tachypnea and carpopedal spasms.3. He is pacing to and fro and pounding his fists together.4. He is muttering to himself and is easily startled.13. The nurse is interviewing a patient with suicidal ideations and a history ofmajor depression. Which comment is cause for greatest concern?1. “I have had problems with depression most of my adult life.”2. “My father and my brother both committed suicide.”3. “My wife is having health problems, and she relies on me.”4. “I am afraid to kill myself, and I wished I had more courage.”14. A patient comes into the walk-in clinic and tells the nurse that he would liketo be admitted to an alcohol rehabilitation program. Which question is themost important to ask?1. “What made you decide to enter a program at this time?”2. “How much alcohol do you usually consume in a day?”3. “When was the last time you had a drink?”4. “Have you been in a rehabilitation program before?”15. The nurse is working with a health care provider who recently startedtreating patients with depression. Which action by the provider wouldprompt the nurse to intervene?1. Tells patient and family that it may take 4 to 8 weeks before theantidepressant medication begins to relieve symptoms2. Prescribes 3 months of antidepressants for a patient newly diagnosed withdepression and gives a 3 month follow-up appointment3. Instructs the patient that the initial dose is low but will gradually beincreased to reach a maintenance dosage4. Tells the patient and the family to watch for and immediately reportanxiety, agitation, irritability, or suicidal thoughts16. A patient on the acute psychiatric unit develops neuroleptic malignantsyndrome. Which task should be delegated to the psychiatric nursingassistant (PNA)?1. Wiping the patient's body with cool moist towels2. Monitoring and interpreting vital signs every 15 minutes3. Attaching the patient to the electrocardiogram (ECG) monitor4. Transporting the patient to the medical intensive care unit17. A newly graduated nurse has just started working at the acute psychiatricunit. Which patient would be the best to assign to this nurse?1. Patient who is frequently admitted for borderline personality disorder and422suicidal gesture2. Patient admitted yesterday for disorganized schizophrenia and psychosis3. Patient newly admitted to determine differential diagnosis of depression,dementia, or delirium4. Patient newly diagnosed with major depression and rumination about lossand suicide18. Which task can be delegated to a medical-surgical unlicensed assistivepersonnel (UAP) who has been temporarily floated to the acute psychiatricunit to help?1. Performing one-to-one observation of a patient who is suicidal2. Assisting the occupational therapist to conduct a craft class3. Accompanying an older adult patient who wanders on a walk outside4. Assisting the medication nurse who is having problems with a patient19. The nurse has identified a patient who may be a candidate for substanceaddiction treatment. Which health care team member should the nursecontact to increase the likelihood of a successful long-term outcome?1. Call a social worker who can locate an immediately available treatmentprogram.2. Call admissions to obtain patient's voluntary consent to enter treatmentprogram.3. Consult a pharmacist about medication therapy to counter addiction.4. Contact the health care provider to initiate admission to a medicaldetoxification unit.20. The team must apply restraints to a combative patient to prevent harm toothers or to self. Which action requires the charge nurse's intervention?1. Psychiatric nursing assistant uses a quick-release knot to tie restraints.2. Health care provider (HCP) secures the restraint to the side rail.3. RN checks the pulses distal to the restraints.4. LPN/LVN explains to the patient why he is being restrained.21. A well-known celebrity is admitted to the psychiatric unit. Several RNs fromother units drop by and express an interest in seeing the patient. What is thebest response?1. “Please be discreet and do not interrupt the work flow.”2. “How did you find out that the patient was admitted to this unit?”3. “Please wait. I need to call the nursing supervisor about this request.”4. “I’m sorry; the patient has asked that only family be allowed to visit.”22. An LPN/LVN complains to the charge nurse that she is always assigned tothe same patient with chronic depression. What should the charge nurse do?1. Look at the assignment sheet and see if there is any way to switchassignments with another LPN/LVN.4232. Tell her to care for the patient today but that her request will be consideredfor future assignments.3. Remind her that continuity of care and patient-centered care are theprimary goals.4. Explain that patients with chronic conditions are more likely to fall underthe LPN/LVN scope of practice.23. Which person is displaying behaviors that most strongly suggest the needfor additional screening for possible substance abuse?1. Person with cancer progressively needs more pain medication to achieverelief2. College student reports occasionally smoking marijuana during semesterbreak3. Stay-at-home mom reports drinking while her kids are in school and afterthey go to bed4. Person with a fractured leg reports taking opioids and tapering off whenpain subsides24. The emergency department (ED) nurse is calling to report on a patient whowill be admitted to the acute psychiatric unit. He has a history of bipolardisorder and was in an altercation that resulted in the death of another. Hehas contusions, abrasions, and minor lacerations. What is the priorityquestion that the receiving nurse should ask?1. “When will the patient be transferred?”2. “Will a police officer be with him while he is on the unit?”3. “Why isn’t the patient being admitted to the trauma unit?”4. “What is the patient's current mood and behavior?”25. A patient needs clonazepam 0.25 mg PO. The pharmacy delivers lorazepam2-mg tablets. A nursing student asks the nurse if clonazepam and lorazepamare interchangeable or if they are the same drug. Place the following steps inthe correct sequence so that the nurse can teach the nursing student how toprevent medication errors.1. Advise the pharmacy of any corrections as appropriate.2. Recognize that “look-alike, sound-alike” drugs increase the chances oferror.3. Consult a medication book to verify the purpose of the drugs and genericand brand names.4. Check the original medication order to verify what was prescribed.5. Write an incident report, as appropriate, if a system error is occurring.6. Call the health care provider (HCP) for clarification of the order asappropriate._____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____26. The vital signs of a 23-year-old man with no known health problems are424unexpectedly abnormal. When the nurse mentions the vital signs, he says,“Well, I was a little nervous, so I smoked four or five cigarettes right before Icame into the clinic.” Which vital signs would be consistent with the patient'suse of cigarettes?1. Blood pressure of 90/60 mm Hg; pulse of 60 beats/min2. Temperature of 100.6°F (38.1°C); respirations of 40 breaths/min3. Blood pressure of 140/90 mm Hg; pulse of 120 beats/min4. Temperature of 97.4°F (36.3°C); respirations of 12 breaths/min27. A patient is displaying muscle spasms of the tongue, face, and neck, and hiseyes are locked in an upward gaze. He has been prescribed haloperidol. Whatis the priority action by the nurse?1. Maintain eye contact and stay with him until the spasms pass.2. Place the patient on aspiration precautions until the spasms subside.3. Obtain an order for intramuscular or IV diphenhydramine.4. Obtain an order for and administer an antiseizure medication.28. Several patients are taking antipsychotic medications and are havingmedication side effects. Place the following patients in priority order foradditional assessment and appropriate interventions, with 1 being the mostcritical and 4 being the least.1. A patient who is taking trifluoperazine and has a temperature of 103.6°F(39.8°C) with tachycardia, muscular rigidity, and dysphagia2. A patient who is taking fluphenazine and has dry mouth and dry eyes,urinary hesitancy, constipation, and photosensitivity3. A patient who is taking loxapine and has a protruding tongue with lipsmacking and spastic facial distortions4. A patient who is taking clozapine and reports a sore throat, fever, malaise,and flulike symptoms that began about 6 weeks ago after starting the newantipsychotic medication; white blood cell count is 2000/mm3 (2.0 × 109/L)_____, _____, _____, _____29. The patient tells the nurse that he drinks 3 or 4 servings of alcohol every day.He also reports frequently taking acetaminophen for stress-relatedheadaches. Based on this information, which laboratory test results are themost important to follow up on?1. Renal function tests2. Liver function tests3. Cardiac enzymes4. Serum electrolytes30. The nurse is reviewing the principle of “least restrictive” interventions withthe staff. Place the following interventions in the correct order, with 1 beingthe least restrictive and 6 being the most restrictive.1. Escort the patient to a quiet room for a time out.4252. Restrain the patient's arms and legs with soft cloth restraints.3. Verbally instruct the patient to stop the unacceptable behavior (i.e., yelling,arguing) and move to another part of the day room.4. Accompany the patient out into the garden courtyard.5. Restrain the patient's upper extremities with wrist restraints.6. Place the patient in isolation room with psychiatric nursing assistantobserving._____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____31. The home health nurse is reviewing the plan of care for a 62-year-old patientwho lives with his wife at home. The health care provider (HCP) recentlyprescribed rivastigmine twice daily for the patient. Based on this information,what additional assessment would the nurse plan to perform first?1. Assess for psychotic features, such as hallucinations.2. Perform a comprehensive pain assessment.3. Assess for cognitive deficits and memory loss.4. Observe for fine and gross motor deficits.32. Which behavior would be the most problematic and require vigilance toprevent danger to self or others?1. Avolition2. Echolalia3. Motor agitation4. Stupor33. A patient comes in to the clinic with nausea, constipation, and “excruciatingstomach pain.” Over a period of several years, this patient has come in two orthree times a month with the same report, but multiple diagnostic tests haveconsistently yielded negative results for physical disorders. What is thepriority nursing intervention for this patient?1. Advocate for the patient to have a psychiatric consultation.2. Make appointment as soon as possible with same health care provider(HCP) for continuity of care.3. Perform a physical assessment to identify any physical abnormalities.4. Assess for concurrent symptoms of depression or anxiety.34. An older man was admitted for palliative care of terminal pancreatic cancer.His wife stated, “We don’t want hospice; he wants treatment.” The patientrequested discharge and home health visits. Several hours after discharge, theman committed suicide with a gun. Which people should participate in a rootcause analysis of this sentinel event? Select all that apply.1. The wife and all immediate family members2. Only the health care provider (HCP) who discharged the patient3. Any nurse who cared for the patient during hospitalization4264. The case manager who arranged home visits for the patient5. Only the nurse who discharged the patient6. All HCPs who were involved in the care of the patient35. An adolescent girl is admitted to the medical-surgical unit for diagnosticevaluation and nutritional support related to anorexia nervosa. She is mildlydehydrated, her potassium level is 3.5 mEq/L (3.5 mmol/L), and she hasexperienced weight loss of more than 25% within the past 3 months. What isthe primary collaborative goal?1. Assist her to increase feelings of control.2. Decrease power struggles over eating.3. Resolve dysfunctional family roles.4. Restore normal nutrition and weight.36. In caring for a patient who is admitted to a medical surgical unit fortreatment of anorexia nervosa, which task can be delegated to unlicensedassistive personnel (UAP)?1. Sitting with the patient during meals and for 1 to 1½ hours after meals2. Observing for and reporting ritualistic behaviors related to food3. Obtaining special food for the patient when she requests it4. Weighing the patient daily and reinforcing that she is underweight37. Nurse B frequently asks to be assigned to care for patients who requireopioids for pain; drug counts involving Nurse B frequently showdiscrepancies. Nurse A suspects that Nurse B may have a substance abuseproblem. Based on the ethical principle of negligence, what should Nurse Ado first?1. Talk to Nurse B and give counsel about the ethical issues of taking patients’medications.2. Continue to assess Nurse B's behavior for other signs and symptoms ofabuse.3. Work closely with Nurse B to give support and help to reduce stress ofworkload.4. Report facts to the nursing supervisor to include date, time, circumstance,and behaviors.38. A male-to-female transgender patient (transwoman) is admitted to an acutecare psychiatric unit for depression and suicidal ideations. On her arrival,several other patients display suspicion and contempt and verbal harassmentis directed toward the woman. What should the charge nurse do first?1. Isolate the patient and explain that the action is meant for her safety andprivacy.2. Make a general announcement to all patients and staff that bullying willnot be tolerated.3. Assess the patient's reaction to the comments and nonverbal behaviors.4274. Gently suggest that the patient could temporarily adopt natal genderappearance.428Answer Key1. Ans: 2 Depot antipsychotic therapy uses long-acting injectable medications.These medications are used for long-term maintenance for schizophrenia forpatients who may have some difficulties with adherence to takingmedications. The homeless veteran has the least amount of social support andstability, which are factors in medication adherence. For the older adultpatient with dementia and psychosis, identifying underlying factors and thenbehavioral therapies would be recommended first. Psychotic features in themanic phase of bipolar disorder would be treated as an acute episode. Thestudent has the support of family, and the health care team will try to workwith the patient and the family to build behaviors that support lifetimeadherence to therapy. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 4 The nurse and the psychiatric nursing assistant spend more time withthe patients than any of the other members of the health care team; thus,establishing a good therapeutic relationship is essential to building trust;increasing social skills; and encouraging participation in educational,socialization, and vocational opportunities. Conventional psychotherapy isgenerally not used with patients with schizophrenia. Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 3 The case manager has a relationship with the patient, knows thespecific details of agreements made with the patient, and is the most capableof helping him to decrease anxiety and preoccupation with physicalsymptoms. In general, presenting reality does not have an impact on patientswith hypochondriasis. Encouraging expression of feelings and following thepatient's wishes contribute to secondary gains of maintaining the sick role.Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 4 Patients with conversion disorders are experiencing symptoms, eventhough there is no identifiable organic cause; therefore, the patient should beassisted in learning ways to cope and live with the disability. Encouragingthe expression of feelings is okay, but it is premature to expect the patient tolink the fight to her blindness. It is likely that the sudden onset of blindnesswill quickly resolve. The patient may physically be able to see, but presentingfacts would not be helpful at this time. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 2 Adolescents, in general, are self-conscious in the presence of membersof the opposite sex, and teenagers with anorexia are overly concerned withtheir appearance; therefore, it would be better to assign this patient to amature female staff member. An experienced LVN is able to set boundariesand to assist patients with chronic health problems. An experienced RNshould be assigned to new admissions, particularly if there are acute safetyissues. An RN with medical-surgical experience would be well acquaintedwith care issues related to dementia. Focus: Assignment.6. Ans: 3 Jane is experiencing a panic level of anxiety, and initially she needs429very simple and direct instructions. It may be very difficult for the nurse toindependently restrain Jane. Speaking softly and gently and encouraging herto express feelings are appropriate when her anxiety is more under control.Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 3 This patient has trouble with interpersonal interactions, so consistentcaregivers who use psychosocial interventions have the best chance of beingable to develop a relationship with this difficult individual. Rotating theassignment sheet to give the staff a break and using float staff are frequentstrategies that are used, but these are not necessarily the best for the patient.Taking the patient may seem like the easiest solution for the charge nurse, butin the long run, strengthening and supporting the staff are better strategiesthan trying to assume all of the complex tasks. Focus: Assignment.8. Ans: 3 Conventional (first-generation) antipsychotics are usually notprescribed for older adult patients with psychosis secondary to dementiabecause of the increased incidence of death, usually from cardiac problems orinfection. Fluoxetine for depression, chlorpromazine for schizophrenia, andlorazepam for generalized anxiety disorder are viable options. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: In general, older adults patients have morecomplex issues related to medications. While studying for the NCLEX®Examination, pay attention to information that highlights care of older adults.9. Ans: 4 The nurse can acknowledge the patient's fears without agreeing ordisagreeing with his accusation toward Dr. Smith. Directing him to talk to thenursing staff provides a source of emotional support and an action that hecan use to decrease his anxiety. Telling the patient that no one has died andthat the staff will ensure safety is presenting reality; however, he believes thatsomeone has been killed and that Dr. Smith is responsible, so this opensopportunities for an argument. Asking him to explain his rationale for hisbeliefs encourages him to elaborate on his delusion. Focus: Prioritization.10. Ans: 1 Assess the content of command hallucinations because the patientmay be getting a command to harm self or others. Ideas of reference occurwhen an ordinary thing or event (e.g., a song on the radio) has personalsignificance (e.g., belief that the lyrics were written for him or her). Ideas ofreference could escalate into aggression, especially if delusions of persecutionare present, so the nurse would check on this patient next. Clang associationis a meaningless rhyming of words, and neologisms are new words createdby patients. These communication patterns create frustration for staff andpatients, but there is no need for immediate intervention. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Safety is a priority concern for all patients. Inidentifying safety issues for patients with active psychosis, the potentialconcern is frequently harm to self or to others.11. Ans: 4 The caregiver needs assistance to identify and locate an alternativecare situation for Martha. The family has been coping and caring for Marthafor a long time, but family circumstances and a patient's condition willchange over time. The nurse may do additional assessment to see if the430caregiver needs to be referred for depression, guilt, or anxiety related tohaving to make this change for Martha. New treatments and behavioralmodification can be attempted, but currently there are no therapies thatreverse the gradual decline. Focus: Prioritization.12. Ans: 3 All of these symptoms signal an increase of anxiety; however,physically aggressive behavior signals a danger to others and to self. Verbalintervention is still possible, but the pacing and fist pounding are a stepabove the other symptoms. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 2 The patient has a strong family history of completed suicide, which isan increased risk factor. The patient may believe that other family membershave successfully used suicide to solve their problems. A long history ofdepression suggests that the problem is chronic; assess for treatment history,risk factors, and coping strategies. Having a feeling of responsibility towardothers and feeling fear are protective factors that can be used in the treatmentplan. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 3 Before someone enters an alcohol rehabilitation program, thereshould be a medically supervised detoxification. This patient has walked inoff the street; therefore, the nurse must determine whether he is at risk forwithdrawal symptoms. Withdrawal from alcohol can be life threatening. Theother questions are relevant and are likely to be included in the interview.Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 2 Patients with depression are at high risk for suicide, andantidepressants can be used to commit suicide. For the patient who wasrecently diagnosed with depression and prescribed antidepressants, thenurse intervenes because a small number of doses should be prescribed anddispensed, and follow-up should be weekly to allow for close monitoring andassessment. The other options are correct information to share with patientsand family members. Focus: Prioritization.16. Ans: 1 A PNA can initiate this simple cooling measure with minimalinstruction. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome is a rare but potentially fatalreaction to antipsychotic medication. Symptoms include fever, altered mentalstatus, muscle rigidity, and autonomic instability. The RN shouldcontinuously interpret vital signs, although taking vital signs can bedelegated. Unlicensed assistive personnel in the intensive care unit (ICU) andemergency department will be familiar with how to attach ECG leads, butPNAs will rarely have occasion to use this equipment; therefore, the RNshould perform this task. The RN (or health care provider) shouldaccompany the patient to the ICU, although the PNA could assist. Focus:Delegation; Test Taking Tip: In assigning, delegating, or supervising tasks toancillary personnel, be familiar with state laws that relate to scope of practicefor these individuals. Because it is impossible to list every task and everycircumstance, remember to analyze the situation and the skills of availablepersonnel. This will help to determine if the task is within the scope ofpractice.43117. Ans: 4 Although the patient is ruminating about suicide, in the early phaseof major depression the patient has minimal energy to act. The danger forsuicide will increase as the medication and therapy begin to help. A newnurse is more likely to be manipulated by a patient with borderlinepersonality disorder. Psychotic patients can seem very threatening to newnurses. Depression, dementia, and delirium have some behavior andsymptom overlap; this patient should be assigned to an experienced nurseuntil delirium is treated or ruled out. Focus: Assignment.18. Ans: 3 Medical-surgical UAPs assist patients to ambulate, and theyfrequently care for older confused patients. Performing one-to-one suicidewatch requires experience because the observer may have to immediatelyintervene while calling out for help. Assisting the occupational therapist ormedication nurse may be possible, but the medical-surgical UAP is unlikelyto be familiar with the behavioral interventions required in these situations.Focus: Assignment.19. Ans: 1 Early treatment contributes to success; however, one of the greatestbarriers in addiction treatment is locating a treatment program that canimmediately accept a patient. Limited finances and lack of comprehensiveprograms make locating a program even more difficult. Medication therapyis one important aspect. Medical detoxification is also important, but it is onlyone step in a long treatment process. Patients’ voluntary participation andconsent are ideal, but pressure and support from family, friends, oremployers can increase the likelihood of success. Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 2 The restraints must be tied to a stationary portion of the bed. HCPsare usually much less familiar with how the beds function. Quick-releaseknots are for safety in case the restraints need to be quickly removed. Distalpulses should be checked. The HCP or RN is usually responsible forexplaining the restraint procedure; however, restraining a combative patientis rarely a planned event, and the caregiver who has the best relationshipwith the patient may be the best spokesperson. Focus: Supervision.21. Ans: 2 First try to determine how the nurses found out about the patient'sadmission. This is a serious Health Insurance Portability and AccountabilityAct (HIPAA) violation, and information disclosure must be immediatelystopped. Unfortunately for these RNs, administration will have to be notified,but as a professional courtesy, it would be better if they went directly to thesupervisor and admitted the error rather than immediately calling thesupervisor and reporting them. Focus: Prioritization, Supervision.22. Ans: 2 Switching the assignments at shift change or midshift creates delaysfor everyone, so politely ask her to continue for the day. However, herrequest is not unreasonable; dealing with depressed patients can be veryexhausting, so consider her request for future assignments. Although manypatients benefit from having the same caregiver, a chronically depressedpatient might benefit from stimulation by various caregivers. Explainingscope of practice and continuity of care is probably not necessary and may432seem condescending. Focus: Assignment, Supervision.23. Ans: 3 A woman who is drinking when her children are out of sight isdisplaying substance use that is not based on medical needs or social norms.The college student is using an illegal substance, but at this point, thefrequency does not suggest that it is a compulsive problem. Person withcancer and person with a fracture are using medications for pain as indicated.Focus: Prioritization.24. Ans: 4 Current mood and behavior is the priority so that the nurse canprepare for physical or chemical restraints, isolation or a private room, andallocation and assignment of staff members. The other questions are alsorelevant. However, the nurse should be aware that challenging theappropriateness of the psychiatric unit versus the trauma unit requirescontacting the nursing supervisor because the ED nurse will not be able toassist with this issue. Focus: Prioritization.25. Ans: 2, 4, 3, 6, 1, 5 The first step is to maintain an awareness of the ways thatmedication errors can occur. Check the original prescription for legibility andclarification. (If the prescription is handwritten, these two drugs could easilybe mistaken if the hand writing is not legible.) Consult a drug reference todetermine if the patient's condition warrants the prescribed medication andto see if clonazepam and lorazepam are interchangeable or different namesfor the same drug. (Note: Medications become familiar with clinical practiceand experience. Experienced nurses will recognize that clonazepam andlorazepam are not the same drug and therefore may not consult a reference;however, all nurses should continue to look up any new or unfamiliar drugs.)Call the HCP if the prescription is not clear or if the medication does not seemappropriate for the patient's condition. (HCPs can also mistake drug names.)Advise the pharmacy about any errors or changes so that the correctmedication is delivered. Consider writing an incident report even thoughthere was no medication error so that system errors can be evaluated andprevented in the future. Focus: Prioritization.26. Ans: 3 Nicotine promotes the release of norepinephrine and epinephrine.This can result in vasoconstriction, which elevates the pulse rate and theblood pressure. Focus: Prioritization.27. Ans: 3 IV administration of diphenhydramine will rapidly alleviate thesymptoms. The patient is experiencing medication side effects. This conditionis frightening and uncomfortable for the patient, but it is not usually harmful.Swallow precautions will not harm the patient, but waiting for the spasms topass delays the most appropriate intervention. Focus: Prioritization.28. Ans: 1, 4, 3, 2 The highest priority is patient 1, who has symptoms ofneuroleptic malignant syndrome, which is rare but potentially fatal. Thispatient should be transferred to a medical unit. Patient 4 may haveagranulocytosis. The mortality rate is high, and interventions includediscontinuing the medication, aggressively treating the infection, and433ensuring that the patient is not exposed to others with infections. Patient 3has symptoms of tardive dyskinesia, which should be reported to the healthcare provider. A new medication, valbenazine (Ingrezza) was recentlyapproved for the treatment tardive dyskinesia. Side effects includesomnolence and possible QT prolongation. Patient 2 is showinganticholinergic effects, which can be treated symptomatically (i.e., providesips of water or hard candy, encourage use of artificial tears, place a warmtowel on the abdomen, give stool softeners, and encourage the use ofsunglasses). Focus: Prioritization.29. Ans: 2 Regular, even moderate, consumption of alcohol and excessive use ofacetaminophen (maximum dose is 4000 mg/day) can cause fatal liverdamage. Some authorities recommend that people who drink moderatelyshould limit the total daily dose of acetaminophen to 2 g/day. Focus:Prioritization.30. Ans: 3, 4, 1, 6, 5, 2 The least restrictive method is verbal intervention. Thepatient should be allowed to stay in public areas if possible, and then movedto isolated spaces. After exhausting less restrictive methods, the patient canbe physically (or chemically) restrained for safety. All interventions andpatient responses should be carefully documented to validate progressionfrom least restrictive to most restrictive. Focus: Prioritization.31. Ans: 3 Rivastigmine is prescribed for mild to moderate cognitiveimpairment that occurs in Alzheimer disease. The medication does notimprove cognition but may slow the decline. It is likely that the nurse willalso assess the other areas to establish baseline information. Severe Alzheimerdisease will eventually affect motor activity. Psychosis can occur in patientswho have dementia. Later in the disease course, the patient may not be ableto verbally express pain. Focus: Prioritization.32. Ans: 3 Although all unusual behavior requires ongoing assessment,intervention, and documentation, motor agitation presents the greatest safetyissue because excessive physical activity such as running about or flailing thearms and legs creates a risk for injury to self and others or exhaustion (to thepoint of death). Avolition is a lack of energy in initiating activities. Echolaliais pathologically repeating other people's words or phrases. Stupor is a statein which the patient may remain motionless for a prolonged period. Focus:Prioritization.33. Ans: 3 The health care team must always be vigilant for actual physicaldisease; however, the patient most likely has an undiagnosed somatoformdisorder, which is a chronic and severe psychological condition in which thepatient experiences physical symptoms but without apparent organic cause.Depression and anxiety are common among patients with somatoformdisorders. After physical disease has been ruled out, having emotionalsupport from a consistent HCP is often the most effective approach forsomatoform disorders. Thus, all options should eventually be considered.Focus: Prioritization.43434. Ans: 3, 4, 6 Everyone who was involved in the direct care of the patientshould be invited to participate. The purpose of this root cause analysis is toreview the event to identify behaviors, signs, or signals of risk for suicide.This information would be used to increase the staff's awareness to preventfuture similar events. Inviting the wife and family is not appropriate becausethe performance of the staff is internally reviewed to improve performance.The purpose is not to fix blame or to create a situation that engenders guilt orconflict for the wife or family (or the staff). Likewise, the purpose of theanalysis is not to provide psychotherapy or emotional support for the wife orfamily. (Referrals should be made for this.) Focus: Assignment.35. Ans: 4 If the patient meets the criteria for admission to a medical-surgicalunit, nutritional restoration is the primary concern. Concurrently, the healthcare team will assist the patient to achieve success in the other areas. Focus:Prioritization.36. Ans: 1 The UAP should be instructed to observe the amount of food eatenand ensure that the patient is not throwing out the food. After meals,observation is necessary to ensure that the patient does not induce vomiting.Ritualistic behaviors can be subtle or difficult to define. Observation for thesebehaviors cannot be delegated. Requests for special foods could be delayingtactics or attempts to manipulate the staff. The UAP should not beresponsible for deciding if food requests are appropriate. Daily weights maynot be ordered, because this could increase the patient's emotional focus onweight. In addition, repeatedly telling the patient that she is underweight iscounterproductive because she does not believe she is underweight.Focus:Delegation.37. Ans: 4 Nurse A should report factual events to the nursing supervisor. Theother actions may be well-intended, but serve to enable Nurse B's behavior bydelaying confrontation and resolution of the suspected substance abuse.Negligence is failure to meet the standard of care. Intentional or unintentionalactions that increase risk or harm to patients are considered negligence.Reporting suspicious behaviors is for the safety of patients and co-workers.Focus: Prioritization.38. Ans: 3 The charge nurse would first assess the patient's reaction to what ishappening. The patient is in a fragile state and should be encouraged toverbalize feelings and preferences. Based on the assessment findings, thenurse can plan interventions to help the patient feel safe and comfortable.Focus: Prioritization.435PA R T 3Prioritization, Delegation, andAssignment in Complex HealthScenarios436C A S E S T U D Y 1437Chest Pressure, Indigestion, andNausea438QuestionsMs. S is a 58-year-old African-American woman who is admitted to the coronary careunit (CCU) from the emergency department (ED) with reports of chest pressure andindigestion associated with nausea. She started feeling ill about 10 hours before shecalled her daughter, who brought her to the ED for admission. She told the nurse thatshe tried drinking water and took some bismuth subsalicylate that was in her bathroommedicine cabinet. She also tried lying down to rest, but none of these actions helped.She states, “It just gets worse and worse.” Ms. S has been under a health careprovider's (HCP's) care for the past 12 years for management of hypertension andswelling in her ankles. She was a smoker for 43 years but quit 1 year ago.In the ED, admission laboratory tests, including levels of cardiac markers, wereperformed, and a 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) was taken.Ms. S's CCU vital sign values on admission are as follows:Blood pressure 174/92 mm HgHeart rate 120 to 130 beats/min, irregularO2 saturation 94% on room airRespiratory rate 30 to 34 breaths/minTemperature 99.8°F (37.7°C) (oral)1. Which risk factors from Ms. S's history would suggest a possible cardiacproblem to the nurse? Select all that apply.1. Hypertension for 12 years2. Smoked for 43 years; quit smoking 1 year ago3. Surgery for gallbladder removal 1 year ago4. Ms. S's father died at age 42 years from a heart attack5. Client's weight is 278 lb (126 kg)6. Diet includes fast foods three to five times a week2. Which action is best for the nurse to delegate to a new unlicensed assistivepersonnel (UAP) orienting to the CCU when caring for Ms. S?1. Placing the client on a cardiac telemetry monitor2. Drawing blood to test cardiac marker levels and sending it to the laboratory3. Obtaining a 12-lead ECG4. Monitoring and recording the client's intake and output3. Which action prescribed by the HCP for Ms. S takes first priority at this time?1. Measure vital signs every 2 hours.2. Obtain a 12-lead ECG every 6 hours.3. Place the client on a cardiac monitor.4. Check levels of cardiac markers every 6 hours.4394. Ms. S's cardiac telemetry monitor shows a rhythm of sinus tachycardia withfrequent premature ventricular contractions (PVCs). Which drug should thenurse be prepared to administer first?1. Amiodarone IV push2. Nitroglycerin sublingually3. Morphine sulfate IV push4. Atenolol IV push5. All of these laboratory values were obtained for Ms. S in the emergencydepartment. Which value would be of most concern to the nurse and haveimmediate implications for the care of the client?1. Potassium level of 3.5 mEq/L (3.5 mmol/L)2. Troponin T level of more than 0.20 ng/mL (0.2 μg/L)3. Glucose level of 123 mg/dL (6.83 mmol/L)4. Slight elevation of white blood cell count6. Ms. S tells the nurse that she has worsening chest discomfort. The cardiacmonitor shows ST-segment elevation, and the nurse notifies the HCP. Whichprescribed action takes priority at this time?1. Administer morphine sulfate 2 mg IV push.2. Schedule an ECG.3. Draw blood for coagulation studies.4. Administer ranitidine 75 mg PO every 12 hours.7. Because Ms. S continues to experience chest pain and has elevated levels ofcardiac markers, the following interventions have been prescribed. Whichinterventions should the nurse delegate to an experienced UAP? Select allthat apply.1. Measuring vital signs every 2 hours2. Accurately recording intake and output3. Administering tenecteplase IV push4. Drawing blood for coagulation studies5. Assessing the cardiac monitor every 4 hours6. Assisting the client to the bedside commode8. The client is scheduled for an emergent cardiac catheterization with possiblepercutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Ms. S asks the nurse what isinvolved with this procedure. What is the nurse's best response?1. “It is a procedure that is usually done on clients who have heart attacks todiagnose blockages in the arteries that feed the heart.”2. “The cardiologist will use a catheter to inject dye and locate narrowedarteries, then may inflate a balloon to open the artery and place a stent tokeep it open.”3. “Cardiac catheterization is usually performed on an outpatient basis to440determine whether or not you have had a heart attack.”4. “After the cardiac catheterization, you will come back to the coronary careunit, where you will be on bed rest for 6 to 8 hours, and we will check yourvital signs often.”9. Ms. S has returned from a cardiac catheterization and a percutaneouscoronary intervention procedure. Which follow-up care orders should thenurse assign to an experienced LPN/LVN? Select all that apply.1. Reminding the client to remain on bed rest with the insertion site extremitystraight2. Preparing a teaching plan that includes activity restrictions and risk factormodification3. Measuring the client's vital signs every 15 minutes for the first hour4. Assessing the catheter insertion site for bleeding or hematoma formation5. Monitoring peripheral pulses, skin temperature, and skin color with eachmeasurement of vital signs6. Administering two tablets of acetaminophen for back pain10. Which information is most important to prevent recurrence of reocclusion ofthe coronary artery, chest discomfort, or myocardial infarction (MI)?1. Remain on bed rest for the next 24 hours.2. Client will be prescribed dual antiplatelet therapy (DAT).3. Client should do no heavy lifting for 48 hours.4. HCP will prescribe a beta-blocker.11. Ms. S's daughter asks the nurse why her mother did not receive a “clotbuster”drug. What is the nurse's best response?1. “Thrombolytic agents, also called clot busters, are most effective whenadministered within the first 6 hours of a coronary event.”2. “Thrombolytic drugs are much more effective when used for clients whohave had a recent stroke.”3. “Thrombolytic drugs work better for clients who have a heart attack at amuch younger age.”4. “Contraindications for these drugs include recent surgeries, and yourmother had gallbladder surgery a year ago.”12. Ms. S's condition is stable, and she has been transferred to the cardiac stepdownunit. What should the step-down nurse instruct the UAP to reportimmediately?1. Temperature of 99°F (37.2°C) with morning vital sign monitoring2. Chest pain episode occurring during morning care3. Systolic blood pressure increase of 8 mm Hg after morning care4. Heart rate increase of 10 beats/min after ambulation13. The nurse delegates to the UAP the task of taking Ms. S's vital signs every 4441hours and recording the vital sign values in the electronic chart. Later thenurse checks the client's chart and discovers that vital sign measurementshave not been recorded. What is the nurse's best action?1. Take the vital signs because the UAP is not competent to complete this task.2. Notify the nurse manager immediately.3. Reprimand the UAP at the nurses’ station.4. Speak to the UAP privately to determine why the values were notrecorded.14. The HCP prescribes captopril 12.5 mg orally twice daily andhydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) 25 mg orally daily. Which information wouldthe nurse be sure to include when teaching Ms. S about these drugs?1. “Take your hydrochlorothiazide in the morning.”2. “If you miss a dose of captopril, take two tablets next time.”3. “Avoid foods that are rich in potassium, such as bananas and oranges.”4. “You should expect an increase in blood pressure with these drugs.”15. The HCP orders DAT for Ms. S. What is the nurse's priority concern for thisclient?1. Reminding the client to do no heavy lifting while hospitalized2. Assessing the progression of walking in the halls3. Teaching the client to apply oxygen for any shortness of breath4. Monitoring the client for any form of bleeding16. The HCP prescribes atenolol 50 mg each morning for Ms. S. Whichinstruction would the nurse provide for the LPN/LVN assigned to give thisdrug?1. Hold the drug if the client's blood pressure is higher than 100/80 mm Hg.2. Give the drug if the client's respiratory rate is greater than 30 breaths/min.3. Hold the drug if the client's heart rate is less than 55 beats/min.4. Give the drug if the client's blood pressure is less than 90/50 mm Hg.17. Which activities could the nurse delegate to UAP assisting Ms. S duringphase 1 of cardiac rehabilitation? Select all that apply.1. Assist with Ms. S's morning bath.2. Refer Ms. S to a monitored cardiac rehab program.3. Ambulate with Ms. S to the bathroom.4. Administer Ms. S's morning doses of captopril and HCTZ.5. Assist with progressive ambulation in the hall.6. Assess Ms. S for additional chest pain or pressure.18. Before discharging Ms. S, the HCP orders an electrocardiogram. This testreveals normal sinus rhythm with a heart rate of 88 beats/min. What is thenurse's best action at this time?4421. Delay the client's discharge until she is seen by the HCP.2. Administer the client's next dose of atenolol 3 hours early before she goeshome.3. Contact the HCP and ask about drawing an additional set of cardiacmarkers.4. Document this finding as the only action.443Answer Key1. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 Risk factors for cardiac problems include hypertension,family history, obesity, and high-fat diets (which may cause elevation ofcholesterol). Gallbladder surgery would not be a risk factor. Quittingsmoking would be a risk factor, and the years that the client smoked wouldbe a strong risk factor. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 4 Monitoring and recording intake and output are within the scope ofpractice for UAPs. Initiating telemetry, performing venipuncture, andobtaining ECGs require additional education and training and would not bedelegated to a new UAP. Attaching ECG leads may be done by UAPs in somefacilities, as may venipuncture and ECG recording. However, the UAPsperforming these tasks would require additional specialized training. Theseactions are generally considered to be within the scope of practice of licensednurses. Focus: Delegation.3. Ans: 3 Cardiac monitoring is the highest priority because the client's heartrate is rapid and irregular, and the client is experiencing chest pressure. Theclient is at risk for life-threatening dysrhythmias such as frequent prematureventricular contractions. Measuring vital signs every 2 hours, checking levelsof cardiac markers, and recording a 12-lead ECG every 6 hours are importantto accomplish, but cardiac monitoring takes first precedence. Focus:Prioritization.4. Ans: 1 With frequent PVCs, the client is at risk for life-threateningdysrhythmias such as ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation.Amiodarone is an antidysrhythmic drug used to control ventriculardysrhythmias. Nitroglycerin and morphine can be given for chest pain relief.Atenolol is a beta-blocker, which can be used to control heart rate anddecrease blood pressure. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: When aquestion asks for what to do first or what takes priority, the nurse shouldconsider what is the most serious danger for the client. In this case, thatdanger is related to life-threatening dysrhythmias.5. Ans: 2 A troponin T level of more than 0.20 ng/mL (0.2 μg/L) is an elevatedlevel and indicates myocardial injury or infarction (heart attack). Althoughthe other laboratory values are all abnormal except the potassium, which islow normal, none of them is life threatening. The low normal potassium levelwould be the second highest concern and might require supplementation tokeep it within normal limits. Remember that hypokalemia can also be a riskfor dysrhythmias. Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 1 Morphine sulfate has been ordered to relieve the chest discomfort thatis common when a client has an acute myocardial infarction. Relief from thechest pain is the highest priority at this time. Ranitidine is a histamine2blocker used to prevent gastric ulcers. Scheduling an ECG or drawing blood444for coagulation studies, although important, will not help relieve chestdiscomfort. Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 1, 2, 6 Measuring vital signs, recording intake and output, and assistingclients with activities of daily living are all within the scope of practice of theUAP. Administration of IV drugs, venipuncture for laboratory tests, andassessments are beyond the scope of practice of UAPs and are applicable tothe practice scope of the professional nurse. In some facilities, UAPs mayreceive additional training to perform venipuncture, but the RN would needto assess the UAP's ability to safely perform this skill before delegation.Focus: Delegation.8. Ans: 2 The nurse's best response should be attentive to and answer the client'squestion. For the cardiac catheterization, the client is taken to a special labwhere the cardiologist uses an invasive catheter with injectable dye to locateand diagnose narrowed sections of coronary arteries. For percutaneouscoronary intervention, a catheter is placed with a balloon, which can beinflated to open the narrowed section, and a stent (an expandable metal meshdevice) can be left in place to keep the artery opened. Options 1, 3, and 4 donot accurately answer the client's question about the procedure. Focus:Prioritization.9. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 All of these interventions are within the scope of practice ofan experienced LPN/LVN. The LPN/LVN would be instructed when to notifythe RN or the HCP of any abnormal findings. Preparing a teaching planrequires additional education and is more suited to the RN's scope ofpractice. Taking vital signs and reminding the client about bed rest could alsobe delegated to the UAP. Focus: Assignment, Supervision.10. Ans: 2 Without stent placement, the artery often reoccludes due to theartery's normal elasticity and memory. Clients who undergo percutaneouscoronary intervention are required to take DAT consisting of aspirin and aplatelet inhibitor to prevent recurrence of artery blockage, chest pain, and MI.Clients are not kept on bed rest for 24 hours; rather, they are instructed to dono heavy lifting for several days after this procedure, and they are oftenprescribed a beta-blocker to slow heart rate and lower blood pressure. Focus:Prioritization.11. Ans: 1 Thrombolytic therapy using fibrinolytics dissolves thrombi in thecoronary arteries and restores myocardial blood flow. Intracoronaryfibrinolytics may be delivered during cardiac catheterization. Thrombolyticagents are most effective when administered within the first 6 hours of acoronary event. They are used in men and women, young and old. Focus:Prioritization.12. Ans: 2 Chest pain can be an indicator of additional myocardial muscledamage. Additional episodes of chest pain significantly affect the client's planof care. Small increases in heart rate and blood pressure after activity are tobe expected. The client's temperature, only 0.2°F (0.1°C) higher than at445admission, is not a priority at this time. Focus: Prioritization, Delegation,Supervision.13. Ans: 4 Measuring and recording vital sign values are within the scope ofpractice of the UAP. When the UAP makes a mistake, it is best tocommunicate specifically, stressing the importance of recording vital signvalues after they have been obtained. Supervision should be done in asupportive rather than confrontational manner. Notifying the nurse manageris not appropriate at this time. Reprimanding the UAP in front of others alsois not appropriate. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.14. Ans: 1 HCTZ is a thiazide diuretic used to correct edema and lower bloodpressure, and it should be taken in the morning so that its diuretic effects donot keep the client up during the night. A side effect of HCTZ is loss ofpotassium, and clients may require potassium supplementation. Captopril isan angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor that lowers blood pressure. It isnever appropriate to take twice the dose of this drug. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 4 DAT is suggested for all clients with acute coronary syndrome,incorporating aspirin and either clopidogrel or ticagrelor. The major sideeffect for each of these agents is bleeding. Observe for bleeding tendencies,such as nosebleeds or blood in the stool. Medications will need to bediscontinued if evidence of bleeding occurs. Focus: Prioritization; TestTaking Tip: With DAT, the client is prescribed two drugs that increase therisk for bleeding, so bleeding is the priority assessment when a client isprescribed this therapy.16. Ans: 3 Atenolol is a beta-blocker drug. Do not give beta-blockers if the pulseis below 55 or the systolic blood pressure is below 100 mm Hg without firstchecking with the HCP. The beta-blocking agent may lead to persistentbradycardia or further reduction of systolic blood pressure, leading to poorperipheral and coronary perfusion. Focus: Assignment, Supervision.17. Ans: 1, 3, 5 Cardiac rehabilitation is the process of actively assisting theclient with cardiac disease in achieving and maintaining a vital andproductive life while remaining within the limits of the heart's ability torespond to increases in activity and stress. It can be divided into three phases.Phase 1 begins with the acute illness and ends with discharge from thehospital. Activities during this phase that could be delegated to a UAPinclude assisting with morning care such as a bath, assisting a client to thebathroom, and assisting with progressive ambulation in the hall. The nursewould be sure to instruct to UAP to stop any activity that caused chest painor pressure and report this at once. Referrals, administering drugs, andassessing clients requires additional educational preparation and is suitablefor professional nurses. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.18. Ans: 4 Normal sinus rhythm with a rate of 88 beats/min is a normal finding.There is no need to delay the client's discharge, give early medications, ordraw additional cardiac markers. Focus: Prioritization.446C A S E S T U D Y 2447Dyspnea and Shortness of Breath448QuestionsMr. W is an 83-year-old man who was brought to the hospital from a long-term carefacility by emergency medical services after reporting severe dyspnea and shortness ofbreath. He has been experiencing coldlike symptoms for the past 2 days. He has aproductive cough with thick yellowish sputum. When Mr. W awoke in the nursinghome, it was found that he was having difficulty breathing even after using hisalbuterol metered-dose inhaler (MDI). He appears very anxious and is in respiratorydistress. His history includes chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) related tosmoking 2 packs of cigarettes per day since he was 15 years old; he quit smoking 2years ago when he was admitted to the long-term facility. Mr. W has been incontinentof urine and stool for the past 2 years.In the emergency department, Mr. W undergoes chest radiography, and admissionlaboratory tests are performed, including serum electrolyte levels and a complete bloodcount. A sputum sample is sent to the laboratory for culture and sensitivity testing andGram staining.Mr. W's vital sign values are as follows:Blood pressure 154/92 mm HgHeart rate 118 beats/minO2 saturation 88% on 1 L/min oxygen by nasal cannulaRespiratory rate 38 breaths/minTemperature 100.9°F (38.3°C) (oral)1. Which priority actions will the nurse take when the patient is initiallyadmitted to the emergency department (ED)? Select all that apply.1. Place the patient on a cardiac monitor.2. Get a baseline set of vital signs.3. Draw admission labs and place a saline lock.4. Change the patient's adult pad.5. Send the patient for a chest x-ray.6. Order the patient a lunch tray.2. What is the priority nursing concern for this patient?1. Skin care due to incontinence2. Clearance of thick secretions3. Rapid heart rate4. Elevated temperature3. The RN assesses Mr. W in the emergency department. Which assessmentfindings are consistent with a diagnosis of COPD? Select all that apply.1. Enlarged neck muscles4492. Forward bent posture3. Respiratory rate 15 to 25 breaths/min4. Inspiratory and expiratory wheezes5. Blue-tinged dusky appearance6. Symmetrical lung expansion4. The health care provider's (HCP's) prescribed actions for this patient includeall of the following. Which intervention should the nurse complete first?1. Send an arterial blood gas (ABG) sample to the laboratory.2. Schedule pulmonary function tests.3. Repeat chest radiography each morning.4. Administer albuterol via MDI 2 puffs every 4 hours.Mr. W's ABG results include the following: pH, 7.37; arterial partial pressure ofcarbon dioxide (Paco2), 55.4 mm Hg; arterial partial pressure of oxygen (Pao2), 51.2 mmHg; bicarbonate (HCO3−) level, 38 mEq/L (38 mmol/L).5. What is the nurse's interpretation of these results?1. Compensated metabolic acidosis with hypoxemia2. Compensated metabolic alkalosis with hypoxemia3. Compensated respiratory acidosis with hypoxemia4. Compensated respiratory alkalosis with hypoxemia6. Based on the patient's ABG results, what are the nurse's priority actions atthis time? Select all that apply.1. Administer oxygen at 2 L/min via nasal cannula.2. Initiate a rapid response.3. Teach the patient how to cough and deep breathe.4. Begin IV normal saline at 100 mL/hr.5. Arrange a transfer to the intensive care unit (ICU).6. Remind the patient to practice incentive spirometry every hour whileawake.7. Which intervention would the RN assign to an experienced LPN/LVN?1. Drawing a sample for ABG determination2. Administering albuterol by hand-held nebulizer3. Measuring vital signs every 2 hours4. Increasing oxygen delivery to 2 L/min via nasal cannula450After the rapid response, the respiratory therapist provides the patient with a hand-heldnebulizer treatment, and Mr. W is stable enough to be admitted to the acute care unit.8. Which interventions would the acute care RN delegate to an experiencedunlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)? Select all that apply.1. Changing the patient's incontinence pad as needed2. Performing pulse oximetry every shift3. Teaching the patient to cough and deep breathe4. Reminding the patient to use incentive spirometry every hour while awake5. Assessing the patient's breath sounds every shift6. Encouraging the patient to drink adequate oral fluids9. Mr. W's emergency department lab values include a serum potassium of2.8 mg/dL (2.8 mmol/L). What is the priority nursing action at this time?1. Teach the patient about potassium-rich foods.2. Provide the patient with oxygen at 2 L per nasal cannula.3. Contact and notify the HCP immediately.4. Initiate 0.9% saline at 20 mL/hr.10. Mr. W is receiving an IV dose of potassium 10 mEq/100 mL(10 mmol/100 mL) normal saline to run over 1 hour. The UAP asks the nursewhy it takes so long to infuse such a small amount of fluid. What should thenurse explain to the UAP? Select all that apply.1. “IV potassium is very irritating to the veins and can cause phlebitis.”2. “Tissue damaged by potassium can become necrotic.”3. “Oral potassium can cause nausea, so IV potassium is preferred.”4. “The maximum recommended infusion rate for IV potassium is 5 to10 mEq/hr (5 to 10 mmol/hr).”5. “That's a good question, and I will ask the HCP if I can give the drug IVpush.”6. “The goal is to prevent infiltration into the tissue.”11. During morning rounds, the nurse notes all of these assessment findings forMr. W. Which finding indicates a worsening of the patient's condition?1. Barrel-shaped chest2. Clubbed fingers on both hands3. Crackles bilaterally4. Frequent productive cough12. The nurse reports the morning assessment findings (see question 11) to theHCP. Which prescribed intervention is most directly related to the nurse'sassessment findings?1. Administer furosemide 20 mg IV push now.4512. Keep accurate records of intake and output.3. Administer potassium 20 mEq (20 mmol) orally every morning.4. Weigh the patient every morning.13. Which assessment finding would the nurse instruct the UAP to reportimmediately?1. Incontinence of urine and stool2. 1-lb (0.45-kg) weight loss since admission3. Patient cough productive of greenish-yellow sputum4. Eating only half of breakfast and lunch14. The UAP checks morning vital signs and immediately reports the followingvalues to the nurse. Which takes priority when notifying the HCP?1. Heart rate of 96 beats/min2. Blood pressure of 160/90 mm Hg3. Respiratory rate of 34 breaths/min4. Oral temperature of 103.5°F (39.7°C)15. An LPN/LVN tells the RN that the patient is now receiving oxygen at2 L/min via nasal cannula and his pulse oximetry reading is now 91%, but hestill has crackles in the bases of his lungs. What intervention should the RNassign to the LPN/LVN?1. Begin creating a plan for discharging the patient.2. Administer furosemide 20 mg orally each morning.3. Get a baseline weight for the patient now.4. Administer cefotaxime IV piggyback every 6 hours.16. The RN administers the patient's first dose of IV cefotaxime. Within 15minutes, Mr. W develops a rash with fever and chills. What is the nurse's firstaction at this time?1. Discontinue the IV infusion.2. Administer 2 tablets of acetaminophen.3. Measure the area of the rash.4. Check for numbness and tingling.17. The RN observes the patient's use of the albuterol MDI. The patient takes 2puffs from the inhaler in rapid succession. Which intervention takes priorityat this time?1. Call the pharmacy to request a spacer for the patient.2. Notify the provider that the patient will need to continue receivingnebulizer treatments.3. Ask the UAP to help get the patient into a chair.4. Instruct the patient about proper techniques for using an MDI.18. Mr. W has lost 15 lb (6.8 kg) over the past year. On assessment, he tells the452nurse that his appetite is not what it used to be, and he becomes short ofbreath while eating. Which interventions should be included in his nursingcare plan? Select all that apply.1. Initiate a dietary consult.2. Stress that he must eat all of his meals or he’ll become malnourished.3. Monitor serum prealbumin levels.4. Suggest four to six small meals per day.5. Instruct the patient to use his bronchodilator 30 minutes before meals.6. Encourage dry foods to avoid coughing.19. The UAP tells the nurse that Mr. W is unable to complete his morning carewithout assistance and wonders if he is being lazy. What is the nurse's bestresponse?1. “Encourage the patient to do as much as he can as quickly as he can.”2. “If the patient is short of breath, increase his oxygen flow.”3. “Remind the patient to take his time and not to rush his morning care.”4. “He may not need as much help as he is asking for, so try to get him to domore.”20. Mr. W is to be transferred back to the long-term care facility after lunch.Which nursing care intervention would be best for the RN to assign to theexperienced LPN/LVN?1. Administer the patient's 12:00 pm oral medications2. Check and record a set of vital signs at 12:00 pm.3. Pack the patient's personal items to be taken with him.4. Change Mr. W's incontinence pad before he is transferred.453Answer Key1. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 5 Baseline data that are essential to decisions for the care of thispatient take priority at this time including vital signs, cardiac rhythm, labvalues, and chest x-ray findings. Placement of a saline lock is essential foradministration of fluids and emergency drugs. Changing the patient'sincontinence pad is important to protect his skin but is not urgent. Ordering alunch tray may be premature because the interventions for this patient's careare undecided when he is first admitted to the ED. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 2 The patient's major problems at this time relate to airway andbreathing including thick sputum, difficulty breathing, and respiratorydistress. The patient's skin care, blood pressure, and elevated temperaturewill need to be followed up on soon but are not as urgent at this time as hisrespiratory status. Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 5 The presence of wheezes, enlarged neck muscles, bluish duskyappearance, and forward bent posture are all classic manifestations in apatient with COPD. The respiratory rate is usually higher than normal andduring an exacerbation can be as high as 30 to 40 breaths/min. Lungexpansion in patients with COPD is usually asymmetrical. Focus:Prioritization.4. Ans: 1 Baseline ABG results are important in planning the care of this patient.The unit clerk can schedule the pulmonary function tests and chestradiography. The albuterol therapy is a routine order. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 3 The pH is on the low side of normal, and the Paco2 is elevated, whichindicates an underlying respiratory acidosis. The HCO3− level is elevated,which indicates compensation. Both the Pao2 and the oxygen saturation levelsare low, which points to hypoxemia. These blood gas results are typicallyexpected when a patient has a chronic respiratory problem such as COPD.Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: The nurse must remember and applyphysiologic concepts learned in school to patient care (e.g., normal ABGvalues).6. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 6 The patient's major problem at this time is impaired gasexchange with hypoxemia. Strategies to compensate include administrationof low-flow oxygen as well as interventions to improve gas exchange, such ashaving the patient cough and deep breathe and perform incentivespirometry. These strategies may improve the patient's condition and preventthe need to initiate a code, transfer to the ICU, or both. A saline lock is a goodidea, but giving the patient too much fluid may worsen his condition byproducing a fluid overload. The patient's symptoms call for initiation of arapid response to treat him now and prevent the need for a code. Focus:Prioritization.7. Ans: 4 Increasing oxygen flow for a patient based on an HCP's prescription is454within the scope of practice of LPN/LVNs. UAPs may measure vital signs.Arterial draws for laboratory tests are not within the LPN/LVN's scope ofpractice unless they have had additional special training. The RN would needto assess the LPN/LVN's skill before assigning this task. Hand-heldnebulizers are usually operated by respiratory therapists. Focus: Assignment,Supervision.8. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 6 Assisting patients with activities of daily living such as toiletingare within the scope of practice of UAPs. After licensed nurses or respiratorytherapists have taught the patient to use incentive spirometry, the UAP canplay a role in reminding the patient to perform it. UAPs can participate inencouraging patients to drink adequate fluids. Assessing and teaching are notwithin the scope of practice of UAPs. Performing pulse oximetry isappropriate for experienced UAPs after they have been taught how to use thepulse oximetry device to gather additional data. Focus: Delegation,Supervision.9. Ans: 3 A low serum potassium places the patient at risk for cardiacdysrhythmias, which can be life threatening. The HCP should be notifiedimmediately and will likely order IV or oral potassium supplements to movethe patient's level back into the normal range. Later, before discharge, thenurse would certainly want to teach the patient about potassium-rich foods,but this is not urgent. Oxygen is essential for the patient's respiratoryproblem but will not correct the low potassium, nor will IV normal saline.Focus: Prioritization.10. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 6 A dilution no greater than 1 mEq (1 mmol) of potassium to10 mL of solution is recommended for IV administration. The maximumrecommended infusion rate is 5 to 10 mEq/hr (5 to 10 mmol/hr); this rate isnever to exceed 20 mEq/hr (20 mmol/hr) under any circumstances. Inaccordance with National Patient Safety Goals, potassium is not given by IVpush to avoid causing cardiac arrest. Oral potassium can cause nausea, andvomiting (give it with food to prevent this), but this does not answer theUAP's question. Focus: Prioritization, Supervision.11. Ans: 3 Barrel chest and clubbed fingers are signs of COPD. The patient had aproductive cough on admission to the hospital. Bilateral crackles are a newfinding and indicate fluid-filled alveoli and pulmonary edema. Fluid in thealveoli affects gas exchange and can result in worsening ABG concentrations.Focus: Prioritization.12. Ans: 1 Furosemide is a loop diuretic. The uses of this drug include treatmentof pulmonary edema, which is most directly related to the new finding.Intake and output records and daily weights are important in documentingthe effectiveness of the medication. A side effect of this drug is hypokalemia,and some patients are also prescribed a potassium supplement when takingthis medication. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 3 The patient's temperature was elevated on admission, and his cough455was productive. The changes in Mr. W's sputum could indicate an ongoinginfection. The HCP needs to be notified and an appropriate treatment planstarted. All of the other pieces of information are important but are noturgent. The patient's incontinence is not new. Focus: Supervision,Prioritization.14. Ans: 4 The heart rate and blood pressure are slightly increased fromadmission, and the respiratory rate is slightly decreased. The continuedelevation in temperature indicates a probable respiratory tract infection thatneeds to be recognized and treated. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 2 Discharge planning and IV administration of antibiotics are moreappropriate to the scope of practice of the RN. However, in some states,LPN/LVNs with special training may administer IV antibiotics. (Be aware ofstate regulations and nursing practice laws in your state.) Administering oralmedications is appropriate to assign to LPN/LVNs, and in this case,furosemide may help clear up the crackles. Although the LPN/LVN couldweigh the patient, this intervention is also appropriate to the scope of practiceof the UAP. Focus: Assignment, Supervision.16. Ans: 1 Serious side effects of cefotaxime include rashes, fever, and chills, aswell as diarrhea, bruising, numbness, tingling, and bleeding. If the patient istaking this drug as an outpatient, the HCP should be notified immediately.Because the drug is being given IV, the first step would be to stop theinfusion. The HCP should be notified, and the patient should be assessed foradditional symptoms of a serious reaction to the drug. Focus: Prioritization.17. Ans: 4 The patient is demonstrating improper use of the MDI by taking 2puffs in rapid succession, which can lead to incorrect dosage and ineffectiveaction of the albuterol. Teaching is the first priority. As the nurse works withthis patient, it may be determined that he would benefit from the use of aspacer. Sitting up in a chair may also be useful, but these interventions arenot the first priority. Notifying the provider that the patient needs to continuewith nebulizer treatments is not within nursing scope of practice and doesnot address the problem, which is that the patient does not know how toproperly use his MDI. Focus: Prioritization.18. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 5 A dietitian can help with the selection of foods that are easy tochew, do not form gas, and are high in calories and protein. Serumprealbumin levels are a good indicator of nutritional status and should bemonitored. Small meals can help prevent meal-related dyspnea. Using abronchodilator before meals will reduce bronchospasm. The second responsedoes not demonstrate respect for the patient's role in his care. Dry foodsstimulate coughing. Focus: Prioritization.19. Ans: 3 The patient with COPD often has chronic fatigue and needs help withactivities. Teaching the patient not to rush through activities is importantbecause rushing increases dyspnea, fatigue, and hypoxemia. Reminding apatient of what has already been taught is within the scope of practice for a456UAP. Patients with COPD should be kept on low-flow oxygen because theirstimulus to breathe is a low arterial oxygen level. Focus: Supervision,Delegation, Prioritization.20. Ans: 1 The scope of practice for an experienced LPN/LVN includesadministering oral medications. Although the LPN could certainly check thepatient's vital signs, pack his personal belongings, and change hisincontinence pad, these interventions are also within the scope of practice fora UAP. Focus: Assignment, Supervision; Test Taking Tip: The nurse must befamiliar with the scope of practice for LPN/LVNs and UAP. LPN/LVNs haveadditional educational preparation in areas such as pharmacology andmedication administration.457C A S E S T U D Y 3458Multiple Clients on a Medical-Surgical Unit459QuestionsThe RN is the leader of a team providing care for six clients. The team includes the RN,an experienced LPN/LVN, and a newly educated unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)who is in his fourth week of orientation to the acute care unit. The clients are asfollows:• Mr. C, a 68-year-old man with unstable angina who needs reinforcement of teachingfor a cardiac catheterization scheduled this morning• Ms. J, a 45-year-old woman who had chest pain during the night and is nowexperiencing chest pain. She is scheduled for a graded exercise test later today• Mr. R, a 75-year-old man who had a left-hemisphere stroke 4 days ago• Ms. S, an 83-year-old woman with heart disease, a history of myocardial infarction,and mild dementia• Mr. B, a 93-year-old newly admitted man from a long-term care facility, withdecreased urine output, altered level of consciousness, and an elevated temperature of99.5°F (37.5°C)• Mr. L, a 59-year-old man with mild shortness of breath and chronic emphysema1. During shift change report, the night RN informs the team that Ms. S is to betransferred back to her long-term care facility after lunch. What action shouldbe taken for this client?1. Instruct the UAP to awaken her for vital signs and breakfast.2. Allow her to sleep for an hour or two while the other clients are assessed.3. Assign the LPN/LVN to immediately pack up the client's belongings.4. Call the nursing home to find out if the transfer can wait until tomorrow.2. Which clients should the team leader assign to the LPN/LVN for nursing care,under the RN's supervision? Select all that apply.1. Mr. C2. Ms. J3. Mr. R4. Ms. S5. Mr. B6. Mr. L3. Which client should the RN assess first?1. Mr. C2. Ms. J3. Mr. B4604. Mr. L4. The RN is assessing Ms. J's chest pain. Which questions would the RN be sureto ask the client? Select all that apply.1. “When did you first notice the chest pain?”2. “Did your pain start suddenly or gradually?”3. “How long has the chest pain lasted?”4. “Have you experienced confusion or loss of memory with the pain?”5. “Can you grade your pain on a scale of 1 to 10, with 10 being the worst painever?”6. “What were you doing when the chest pain started?”5. The health care provider's (HCP's) prescribed actions for Ms. J, who iscurrently experiencing chest pain, are as follows. Which intervention shouldbe completed first?1. Administer nitroglycerin 0.6 mg sublingually as needed for chest pain.2. Administer morphine 2 mg IV push as needed for chest pain.3. Check blood pressure and heart rate.4. Lab tests to include cardiac markers and daily electrocardiogram.6. Which tasks should the nurse delegate to the newly hired UAP? Select allthat apply.1. Asking Ms. S memory-testing questions2. Teaching Ms. J about treadmill exercise testing3. Checking vital signs on all six clients4. Recording oral intake and urine output for Mr. B5. Assisting Mr. L to walk to the bathroom6. Helping Mr. R with morning care7. Which key point would the nurse be sure to include when teaching Mr. Cabout the postprocedure care for cardiac catheterization?1. “There are no restrictions after the procedure.”2. “You will be able to get out of bed within 2 hours after the procedure.”3. “You will have to stay almost flat in bed with limited position changes for 4to 6 hours.”4. “Family visitors will be restricted until the next day.”8. The cardiac lab calls to have Ms. J sent for her graded exercise test (GXT).What is the nurse's best action?1. Instruct the UAP to put the client in a wheelchair and take her to the lab.2. Call the cardiac lab and ask to delay the test until later in the day.3. Contact the HCP to ask if the client should still have the GXT.4. Ask the client if she is continuing to have chest pain.4619. The UAP is delegated the task of measuring morning vital signs for all sixclients. Which finding would the nurse instruct the UAP to reportimmediately?1. Oral temperature higher than 102°F (38.9°C)2. Blood pressure higher than 140/80 mm Hg3. Heart rate lower than 65 beats/min4. Respiratory rate lower than 18 breaths/min10. The UAP asks the RN why it is important to notify someone whenever aclient with heart problems reports chest pain. What is the RN's bestresponse?1. “It's important to keep track of the chest pain episodes so we can notify thehealth care provider.”2. “The client may need morphine to treat the chest pain.”3. “Chest pain may indicate coronary artery blockage and heart muscledamage that will need treatment.”4. “Our unit policy includes specific steps to take in the treatment of clientswith chest pain.”11. The HCP's prescribed interventions for Mr. R, who had a stroke 4 days ago,include assisting the client with meals. Which staff member would be best toassign this task?1. Physical therapist2. UAP3. LPN/LVN4. Occupational therapist12. The LPN/LVN reports to the RN that Mr. R was unable to take his oralmedications because of difficulty swallowing. The RN assesses Mr. R andfinds that he is having dysphagia. What is the RN's best instruction for theLPN/LVN?1. “Keep Mr. R NPO, and I will contact his health care provider.”2. “Try giving his medications with applesauce or pudding.”3. “Check with the pharmacy to find out if they have liquid forms of Mr. R'smedications.”4. “Assess Mr. R's ability to speak and move his tongue.”13. The UAP reports to the RN that Mr. L, the client with chronic emphysema,says he is feeling short of breath after walking to the bathroom. What actionshould the RN take first?1. Notify the HCP.2. Increase oxygen flow to 6 L/min via nasal cannula.3. Assess oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry.4. Remind the client to cough and deep-breathe.46214. The oral temperature of Mr. B, the client newly admitted from a long-termcare facility with decreased urine output and altered level of consciousness, isnow 102.6°F (39.2°C). What is the nurse's best action?1. Notify the HCP.2. Administer acetaminophen 2 tablets orally.3. Ask the LPN/LVN to give an acetaminophen suppository.4. Remove extra blankets from the client's bed.15. Which factor does the nurse suspect most likely precipitated Mr. B's elevatedtemperature?1. Bladder infection2. Increased metabolic rate3. Kidney failure4. Nosocomial pneumonia16. The RN is working on a care plan for Mr. B. Which care intervention is mostappropriate to delegate to the UAP?1. Checking the client's level of consciousness every shift2. Assisting the client with ambulation to the bathroom to urinate3. Teaching the client the side effects of antibiotic therapy4. Administering sulfamethoxazole–trimethoprim orally every 12 hours17. The UAP reports that Mr. L's heart rate, which was 86 beats/min in themorning, is now 98 beats/min. What would be the most appropriate questionfor the nurse to ask Mr. L?1. “Have you just returned from the bathroom?”2. “Did you recently use your albuterol inhaler?”3. “Are you feeling short of breath?”4. “How much do you smoke?”18. The LPN/LVN reports to the RN that Ms. S will not leave the chest leads forher cardiac monitor in place and asks if the client can be restrained. What isthe RN's best response?1. “Yes, this client had a heart attack, and we must keep her on the cardiacmonitor.”2. “Yes, but be sure to use soft restraints so that the client's circulation is notcompromised.”3. “No, we must have a health care provider's order before we can applyrestraints in any situation.”4. “No, but try covering the lead wires with the sheet so that the client doesnot see them.”19. Mr. C has returned from the cardiac catheterization lab and requires closemonitoring after the procedure. Which postprocedure tasks would be bestassigned to the LPN/LVN? Select all that apply.4631. Check bilateral pedal pulses every 15 minutes during the first hour.2. Check right groin area for bleeding every 15 minutes during first hour.3. Continue IV fluids normal saline at 50 mL/hr.4. Assist client to bathroom as needed during first 6 hours after procedure.5. Administer morphine sulfate 2 mg IV push as needed for pain.6. Give client's daily multivitamin and stool softener on return to medicalunit.20. Near the end of the shift, the LPN/LVN reports that the UAP has not totaledclients’ intake and output for the past 8 hours. What is the nurse's bestaction?1. Confront the UAP and instruct him to complete this assignment at once.2. Assign this task to the LPN/LVN.3. Ask the UAP if he needs assistance completing the intake and outputrecords.4. Notify the nurse manager to include this on the UAP's evaluation.464Answer Key1. Ans: 2 Because Ms. S is not scheduled to be transferred until after lunch, it isnot urgent to get her ready at this time. Allowing her to rest while the stafftakes care of other clients whose needs are more urgent is acceptable. The RNcould instruct the UAP to keep the client's breakfast tray and warm it upwhen she is ready to eat. Focus: Prioritization, Supervision.2. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 6 It is important to recognize that the RN continues to beaccountable for the care of all clients by this team. Appropriate clientassignments for the LPN/LVN include clients whose conditions are stableand not complex. Ms. J is currently experiencing chest pain, and Mr. B is acomplex new admission. Focus: Assignment, Supervision.3. Ans: 2 Although it is important that the nurse see all of these clients, Ms. J'sassessment takes priority. Her chest pain may indicate coronary arteryblockage and acute heart attack. None of the other clients’ needs is lifethreatening. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: A question like this asksthe nurse to prioritize in order to make a decision about which client mosturgently needs to be evaluated. The client is having chest pain, and the risk islife threatening for coronary artery blockage and heart attack.4. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 The RN should thoroughly evaluate the nature of the client'spain. Asking the client when the pain started focuses on the onset. Asking ifthe pain was sudden or slow in onset deals with the manner of onset. Askinghow long the pain has lasted speaks to duration of symptoms. Having theclient grade the pain on a scale of 1 to 10 evaluates the intensity. Asking whatthe client what he or she was doing when the pain started helps delineatefactors that can lead to pain onset. Clients do not usually experienceconfusion or memory loss with cardiac pain. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 3 When the client experiences chest pain, vital signs should be checkedimmediately to establish a baseline. Nitroglycerin is usually tried every 5minutes for three doses before morphine to relieve the chest pain.Hypotension is a side effect of nitroglycerin. Blood pressure and heart rateare monitored after each dose of nitroglycerin is administered. Whennitroglycerin fails to relieve chest pain, IV morphine is the next action, andthe HCP should be notified. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Thisquestion asks the nurse to apply knowledge about common side effects ofmedications. Checking blood pressure and heart rate is essential whenevaluating a client for the common side effect of nitroglycerin, which ishypotension.6. Ans: 3, 4, 5, 6 Assessment and teaching are more appropriate to theeducational preparation of licensed nursing staff. Checking vital signs,monitoring and recording intake and output, assisting clients to thebathroom, and helping clients with morning care are all within the465educational scope of the UAP. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.7. Ans: 3 Cardiac catheterization is usually accomplished by inserting a largeboreneedle into the femoral vein or artery (or both). Clients are routinelyrestricted to bed rest, with the affected extremity kept straight, for 4 to 6hours after the procedure to prevent hemorrhage. Family members areusually permitted to visit as soon as the client returns to the room. Focus:Prioritization.8. Ans: 3 The client had chest pain during the night and this morning. She maybe experiencing acute coronary syndrome, a term used to describe clientswho have either unstable angina or an acute myocardial infarction. In thissituation, the best action by the RN is to contact the HCP and ask if theclient's GXT should be cancelled. Sending her to take the GXT would increasethe risk of cardiac damage and should not be done. Asking if the client is stillhaving chest pain is important and may reinforce the need to cancel the test.Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 1 A temperature elevation to 102°F (38.9°C) is likely an indicator of aninfectious process. The other criterion parameters are near normal, andassessment or evaluation would instead be based on abnormalities from eachclient's baseline. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.10. Ans: 3 Acute chest pain can indicate myocardial ischemia, coronary arteryblockage, or myocardial damage. The UAP's question should be answeredwith the most accurate response. Although the unit may have protocols thatthe UAP should be familiar with, option 4 is not the most accurate response.Focus: Prioritization, Supervision.11. Ans: 2 Assisting clients with activities of daily living such as feeding is mostappropriate to the scope of practice of the UAP. The RN would be sure toinstruct the UAP to avoid rushing the client and to report any difficulty withswallowing. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.12. Ans: 1 The client who has difficulty chewing or swallowing foods andliquids (dysphagia) is at risk for aspiration pneumonia. At this time, the bestaction is to keep the client NPO and contact the HCP. Attempting to give himoral foods, drugs, or fluids increases his risk for aspiration. Assessing hisspeech and tongue movement is important but not as urgent as keeping himNPO. The client likely will require screening or use of an evidence-basedbedside swallowing screening tool to determine if dysphagia is present. Areferral to a speech-language pathologist for a swallowing evaluation perstroke protocol is needed. If dysphagia is present, develop a collaborativeplan of care to prevent aspiration and support nutrition and preventconstipation or dehydration. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 3 The nurse should gather more information before notifying the HCP.Pulse oximetry assessment provides information about the client's gasexchange and oxygenation status. Clients with chronic obstructivepulmonary disease (COPD) usually receive low-dose oxygen (1–3 L) because466their stimulus for breathing is a low oxygen level. Coughing and deepbreathing help mobilize secretions and can be helpful, but these are not thefirst priority. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 1 This client's temperature elevation is most likely caused by aninfection. The HCP must be notified to modify the client's plan of care.Administering acetaminophen and removing extra blankets may decrease theclient's temperature, but they will not treat the infection. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 1 The client's temperature elevation indicates an infectious process. Forolder adult clients, changes in level of consciousness are frequently an earlysign of bladder or urinary tract infections. Focus: Prioritization.16. Ans: 2 Assisting clients with activities of daily living (including ambulationto the bathroom) is appropriate to the educational preparation and scope ofpractice of the UAP. An LPN/LVN could administer the oral drug. Teaching,assessing, and administering medications fall within the scope of practice forlicensed nurses. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.17. Ans: 2 A common side effect of beta-adrenergic agonists such as albuterol isincreased heart rate. Drugs such as albuterol are commonly prescribed forclients with COPD to use as needed to dilate the airways when experiencingshortness of breath. Although the other factors are important and may berelated to the client's COPD, they may not have contributed to the increase inheart rate. Focus: Prioritization.18. Ans: 4 Standards of practice for the use of restraints require that nursesattempt alternative strategies before asking that a client be restrained. AnHCP's written order is required for continued use of restraints but can beobtained after the fact if the client's actions endanger his or her well-being.Remember that when a client is restrained, a flow sheet should be at thebedside and the restraints frequently assessed (every 1–2 hours) and released(every 2 hours). Focus: Prioritization, Assignment, Supervision; Test TakingTip: This question asks the nurse to apply the standards of practice associatedwith the use of restraints. Nurses are expected to try alternatives beforemaking use of restraints.19. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 6 The LPN/LVN is experienced and post cardiac catheterizationcare would be familiar to her. Basic assessments such as checking peripheralpulses, watching for bleeding, and monitoring IV fluid flow, as well asadministering oral drugs are within his or her scope of practice. Most IVdrugs are administered by RNs; however, some LPN/LVNs may administerthese drugs with additional training. The client would most likely be on bedrest, keeping the affected extremity straight for 4 to 6 hours after theprocedure. Focus: Assignment.20. Ans: 3 The UAP is new to the unit and may need assistance or instructionregarding the completion of this assignment. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.467C A S E S T U D Y 4468Shortness of Breath, Edema, andDecreased Urine Output469QuestionsMs. J is a 63-year-old woman who is admitted directly to the medical unit after visitingher health care provider (HCP) because of shortness of breath and increased swelling inher ankles and calves. She is being admitted with a diagnosis of chronic kidney disease.Ms. J states that her symptoms have become worse over the past 2 to 3 months and thatshe uses the bathroom less often and urinates in small amounts. Her medical historyincludes hypertension (30 years), coronary artery disease (18 years), type 2 diabetes(14 years), appendectomy at age 28, cataract surgery to the left eye 2 years ago andright eye 1 year ago, and four pregnancies with healthy births. She also hasgastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), which is controlled with over-the-counterranitidine 75 mg as needed.Ms. J's vital sign values on admission were as follows:Blood pressure 162/96 mm HgHeart rate 88 beats/minO2 saturation 89% on room airRespiratory rate 28 breaths/minTemperature 97.8°F (36.6°C)The patient is to be placed on oxygen at 2 L/min via nasal cannula. Admissionlaboratory tests for which patient samples are to be collected on the unit include serumelectrolyte levels, kidney function tests, complete blood count, and urinalysis. A 24-hour urine collection for determination of creatinine clearance has also been ordered.1. Which patient admission tasks should the nurse delegate to the experiencedunlicensed assistive personnel (UAP)? Select all that apply.1. Check vital signs every 4 hours.2. Record accurate intake and output.3. Place a saline lock in left forearm.4. Check oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry.5. Teach the patient the importance of keeping oxygen in place.6. Check and record the fingerstick blood glucose before lunch.2. During admission assessment, Ms. J has all of these findings. For whichfinding should the nurse notify the HCP immediately?1. Bilateral pitting ankle and calf edema rated + 22. Crackles in both lower and middle lobes3. Dry and peeling skin on both feet4. Faint but palpable pedal and post-tibial pulses3. Which task associated with the patient's 24-hour urine collection isappropriate for the nurse to delegate to the UAP?1. Instructing Ms. J to collect all urine with each voiding4702. Teaching Ms. J the purpose of collecting urine for 24 hours3. Ensuring that all of Ms. J's urine collected for the test is kept on ice4. Assessing Ms. J's urine for color, odor, and sediment4. The results of Ms. J's 24-hour urine collection reveals a creatinine clearance of65 mL/min (1.09 mL/sec). How does the nurse best interpret this finding?1. Creatinine clearance is lower than normal.2. Creatinine clearance is higher than normal.3. Creatinine clearance is within normal range.4. Creatinine clearance indicates adequate kidney function.5. Which risk factors in Ms. J's history indicate increased risk for chronic kidneydisease (CKD)? Select all that apply.1. GERD2. Hypertension3. Four pregnancies4. Type 2 diabetes5. Coronary artery disease (CAD)6. Cataracts6. The RN reviews Ms. J's laboratory results. Which laboratory finding is ofmost concern?1. Serum potassium level of 7.1 mEq/L (7.1 mmol/L)2. Serum creatinine level of 7.3 mg/dL (645 μmol/L)3. Blood urea nitrogen level of 180 mg/dL (64.3 mmol/L)4. Serum calcium level of 7.8 mg/dL (1.95 mmol/L)7. Which medication should the nurse be prepared to administer to lower thepatient's potassium level?1. Furosemide 40 mg IV push2. Epoetin alfa 300 units/kg subcutaneously3. Calcium 1 tablet PO4. Sodium polystyrene sulfonate 15 g PO8. Ms. J states that she feels increasingly short of breath. The nurse team leaderis supervising an LPN/LVN and a UAP. Which nursing care action for Ms. Jshould be most appropriately assigned to the LPN/LVN?1. Checking for residual urine with the bedside bladder scanner2. Planning restricted fluid amounts to be given with meals3. Assessing breath sounds for increased bilateral crackles4. Discussing renal replacement therapies with the patient9. The team leader RN observes the UAP perform all of these actions for Ms. J.For which actions must the RN intervene? Select all that apply.4711. Assisting the patient to replace her oxygen nasal cannula2. Checking vital signs after the patient has had something cold to drink3. Ambulating with the patient to the bathroom and back4. Increasing the patient's oxygen flow rate by nasal cannula from 2 to 4 L/min5. Washing the patient's back, legs, and feet with warm water6. Reminding Ms. J to perform prescribed incentive spirometry every hourwhile awake10. The RN team leader assigns the LPN/LVN to give Ms. J's 9:00 am oralmedications. Which key instruction or action will be most important that theRN give the LPN/LVN regarding administering Ms. J's atenolol 50-mg tablet?1. Give this drug with just a few swallows of water.2. Ask the patient if she has been taking a diuretic at home.3. Instruct the patient to use the bedside commode.4. Check the patient's heart rate and blood pressure.11. Ms. J's care plan includes the nursing concern, excess fluid volume. Whatinterventions are appropriate for this nursing concern? Select all that apply.1. Measure weight daily.2. Monitor daily intake and output.3. Restrict sodium intake with meals.4. Restrict fluid to 1500 mL plus urine output.5. Assess for crackles in the lungs every shift.6. Check for peripheral edema and note any increase.12. The RN is delegating and assigning care for Ms. J related to her type 2diabetes. Which action by the RN indicates that the team leader needs tointervene?1. RN delegates fingerstick glucose check to newly hired UAP.2. RN assigns administering morning dose of metformin to the LPN/LVN.3. RN refers the patient to a dietitian for education about a diabetic diet.4. RN assesses condition of patient's feet daily.13. After discussing renal replacement therapies with the HCP and nurse, Ms. Jis considering hemodialysis (HD). Which statement indicates that Ms. J needsadditional teaching about HD?1. “I will need surgery to create an access route for HD.”2. “I will be able to eat and drink what I want after I start dialysis.”3. “I will have a temporary dialysis catheter for a few months.”4. “I will be having dialysis three times every week.”14. The RN is precepting a new nurse orientating to the unit, who is providingcare for Ms. J after her return from surgery to create a left forearm access fordialysis. Which action by the orienting nurse requires that the preceptor472intervene?1. Monitoring the patient's operative site dressing for evidence of bleeding2. Obtaining a blood pressure reading by placing the cuff on the right arm3. Drawing blood for laboratory studies from the temporary dialysis line4. Administering acetaminophen with codeine PO for moderate postoperativepain15. Assessment of Ms. J after dialysis reveals all of these findings. Whichassessment finding necessitates immediate notification of the HCP?1. Weight decrease of 4.5 lb (2 kg)2. Systolic blood pressure decrease of 14 mm Hg3. Decreased level of consciousness4. Small blood spot near the center of the dressing16. Six months later, Ms. J is readmitted to the unit. She has just returned fromHD. Which nursing care action should the nurse delegate to the UAP?1. Measuring vital signs and postdialysis weight2. Assessing the HD access site for bruit and thrill3. Checking the access site dressing for bleeding4. Instructing the patient to request assistance getting out of bed17. Ms. J is preparing for discharge. The RN is supervising a student nurse, whois teaching the patient about her discharge medications. For which statementby the student nurse will the RN intervene?1. “Sevelamer prevents your body from absorbing phosphorus.”2. “Take your folic acid after dialysis on dialysis days.”3. “The docusate is to prevent constipation that may be caused by ferroussulfate.”4. “You must take the epoetin alfa three times a week by mouth to treatanemia.”Ms. J is admitted for a kidney transplantation 6 months later. Her son is the kidneydonor.18. The RN is caring for Ms. J on the first day postoperatively after a kidneytransplant. On assessment, her temperature is 100.4°F (38°C), her bloodpressure is 168/92 mm Hg, and the patient tells the RN she has pain aroundthe transplant site. What is the best interpretation of these findings?1. Hyperacute rejection2. Acute rejection3. Chronic rejection4. Transplant site infection47319. What intervention is required at this time?1. Increased doses of immunosuppressive drugs2. IV antibiotics3. Conservative management including dialysis4. Immediate removal of the transplanted kidney20. While making rounds, the RN finds Ms. J in tears and sobbing. She states, “Ijust don’t want to have to go back to dialysis 3 days a week!” What is thenurse's best response?1. “Would you like me to call someone to come in and sit with you?”2. “You can always get on the list for another kidney transplant.”3. “Tell me some more about how you are feeling.”4. “Let me call your health care provider to come in and speak with you.”474Answer Key1. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 6 Checking vital signs and recording intake and output fall withinthe scope of practice for any UAP. An experienced UAP will have beentaught to use pulse oximetry to check oxygen saturation and to use aglucometer to check a patient's fingerstick blood glucose. However, inCanada, glucose monitoring is considered an advanced skill and would notbe performed by UAP. Placing an IV line and teaching require additionaleducation and training that are more within the scope of practice for alicensed nurse. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.2. Ans: 2 All of these findings are important, but only the presence of crackles inboth lungs is urgent because it signifies fluid-filled alveoli and interruption ofadequate gas exchange and oxygenation, worsening of the patient'scondition, and possibly pulmonary edema. The patient's peripheral edema isnot new. The faint pulses are most likely caused by the presence of peripheraledema. The dry and peeling skin is a result of chronic diabetes and meritscareful monitoring to prevent infection, but it is not immediately urgent.Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 3 Teaching, instructing, and assessing are all functions that requireadditional education and preparation appropriate to the scope of practice forprofessional nurses. Providing the patient with ice for the urine collection andreminding the patient to collect her urine fit the scope of practice of the UAP.Remember that the UAP can remind a patient about anything that hasalready been taught. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.4. Ans: 1 The normal creatinine clearance is 107 to 139 mL/min for men (1.78–2.32 mL/sec) and 87 to 107 mL/min (1.45–1.78 mL/sec) for women tested witha 24-hour urine collection. A low result indicates that the kidneys arefunctioning at a lower than expected level. The patient has chronic kidneydisease. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: The nurse should be familiarwith the normal values of frequently ordered lab tests, as well as main causesand risks of high and low levels.5. Ans: 2, 4, 5 Major risk factors for CKD include hypertension and diabetes.CAD has a related pathophysiology to hypertension. Pregnancy, cataracts,and GERD are not risk factors for CKD. Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 1 A patient with a serum potassium level of 7 to 8 mEq/L (7-8 mmol/L)or higher is at risk for electrocardiographic changes and fatal dysrhythmias.The HCP should be notified immediately about this potassium level.Although the serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen levels are high, theselevels are commonly reached before patients experience symptoms of chronickidney disease (CKD). The serum calcium level is low but not lifethreatening. Keep in mind that there is an inverse relationship betweencalcium and phosphorus, so when calcium is low, expect phosphorus to be475high. Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 4 Sodium polystyrene sulfonate removes potassium from the body byexchanging sodium for potassium in the large intestine. Diuretics such asfurosemide generally do not work well in chronic kidney failure. The patientmay need a calcium supplement and subcutaneous epoetin alfa; however,these drugs do nothing to decrease potassium levels. Focus: Prioritization.8. Ans: 1 Checking residual urine with a bedside bladder scanner is within thescope of practice of the LPN/LVN, who would remain under the supervisionof the RN. Planning care and discussing options such as renal replacementtherapies require additional education and training, which are within thescope of practice for the professional RN. Although in many acute carehospitals, LPN/LVNs auscultate breath sounds as a part of their observations,RNs follow up for overall assessment and synthesis of data. Because Ms. J is apotentially unstable patient with respiratory changes that may indicateworsening of her condition, the more appropriate person to assess her lungsounds would be the RN. Focus: Assignment, Supervision.9. Ans: 2, 4 Checking vital signs usually includes measuring oral bodytemperature. Because the patient just finished drinking fluids, an oraltemperature measurement would be inaccurate at this time. If the fluids werecold, the temperature would be falsely low; if the fluids were hot, thetemperature would be falsely high. Changing the oxygen flow rate withoutprescription or instruction is not acceptable practice. All of the other actionsare appropriate and within the scope of practice of the UAP. A UAP's scopeof practice includes reminding patients of content that has already beentaught. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.10. Ans: 4 Atenolol is a beta-blocker drug with actions that slow the heart rateand decrease the blood pressure. HCPs often have blood pressure (BP) andheart rate (HR) guidelines (e.g., low BP and/or HR) for when to give andwhen to hold these drugs. The nurse should instruct the patient to call forhelp getting out of bed when the drug is newly prescribed or if the drugresults in dizziness and syncope symptoms. The other instructions andactions may be included in the patient's care but will not affect theadministration of atenolol. Focus: Prioritization.11. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 The usual fluid restriction for patients with chronic kidneyfailure is 500 to 700 mL plus urine output. All of the other actions areappropriate for a patient with fluid overload. Remember that it is essential forthe nurse to compare findings with previous shifts and days to determine ifsymptoms are worsening. Focus: Prioritization.12. Ans: 1 The newly hired UAP would need to be taught how to use aglucometer and perform a fingerstick before having this task delegated tohim or her. All of the other care tasks are appropriate to the staff members.Focus: Delegation, Assignment, Supervision.13. Ans: 2 Even after beginning HD, patients are still required to restrict fluid476intake. In addition, patients on HD have nutritional restrictions (e.g., protein,potassium, phosphorus, sodium restrictions). All of the other patientstatements indicate an appropriate understanding of HD. Focus:Prioritization.14. Ans: 3 Temporary dialysis lines are to be used only for HD. The preceptornurse should stop the new nurse before the temporary HD system isinterrupted. Breaking into the system increases the risk for complicationssuch as infection. The blood pressure should always be assessed on thenondialysis arm. Postoperative patients should always be monitored forbleeding. Acetaminophen with codeine, when ordered by the HCP, is anappropriate analgesic for moderate to severe pain. Focus: Assignment,Supervision; Test Taking Tip: It's essential that the nurse know the keyprinciples for care of a patient after a surgical procedure. In this case, with atemporary HD line in place, the most important aspect is preventinginfection, which is a risk whenever the system is interrupted.15. Ans: 3 Changes in level of consciousness during or after HD can signaldialysis disequilibrium syndrome, a life-threatening situation that requiresearly recognition and treatment with anticonvulsants. This should beimmediately reported to the HCP so that appropriate treatment can beprescribed. Decreases in weight and blood pressure are to be expected as aresult of dialysis therapy. A small amount of drainage is common after HD.Focus: Prioritization.16. Ans: 1 Measuring vital signs and weighing the patient are within theeducation and scope of practice of the UAP. The UAP could remind thepatient to request assistance when getting out of bed after the RN hasinstructed to patient to do so. Assessing the HD access site for bleeding, bruit,and thrill require additional education and skill and are appropriatelyperformed by a licensed nurse. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.17. Ans: 4 Epoetin alfa is used to treat anemia and is given two to three times aweek. However, it is given by either the IV or subcutaneous route. Mostcommonly epoetin alfa is given subcutaneously. All of the other statementsabout medications for patients with chronic kidney disease are accurate.Focus: Delegation, Supervision.18. Ans: 1 Hyperacute rejection occurs within 48 hours after transplant surgery.Increased temperature, increased blood pressure, and pain at the transplantsite are manifestations. Focus: Prioritization.19. Ans: 4 The treatment for hyperacute rejection is immediate removal of thetransplanted kidney and return to dialysis until another kidney becomesavailable. Increased doses of immunosuppressant drugs are used to treatacute rejection, conservative management is used for chronic rejection, and IVantibiotics are administered for infections. Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 3 The RN should be supportive and nonjudgmental. Listening andencouraging the patient to verbalize her concerns (e.g., grief, feeling of477failure) are essential at this time. Asking someone else to come in to talk withthe patient is not responding to her concern. Suggesting that she can get onthe transplant list again is not acknowledging Ms. J's grief for losing thetransplanted kidney. Focus: Prioritization.478C A S E S T U D Y 5479Diabetic Ketoacidosis480QuestionsMr. D, a 19-year-old premed student, has been brought to the emergency department(ED) by his roommate, who is a medical student and a family friend. Mr. D reportsabdominal pain, polyuria, vomiting, and thirst. He appears flushed, and his lips andmucous membranes are dry and cracked. His skin turgor is poor. He has deep, rapidrespirations, and there is a fruity odor to his breath. He has type 1 diabetes and “mayhave skipped a few doses of insulin because of cramming for finals.” He is alert andconversant but is having trouble focusing on the nurse's questions.Mr. D's vital signs and blood glucose are as follows:Blood glucose level (fingerstick) 685 mg/dL (38.1 mmol/L)Blood pressure 100/60 mm HgHeart rate 120 beats/minRespiratory rate 32 breaths/minTemperature 100.8°F (38.2°C)1. To clarify pertinent data, what questions are appropriate to ask Mr. D? Selectall that apply.1. “When did your symptoms start?”2. “How many times have you vomited?”3. “When were you diagnosed with diabetes?”4. “Where does your abdomen hurt?”5. “Did you take any insulin today?”6. “Do you have any allergies?”2. The nurse has completed the triage assessment and history taking. Now whatis the priority action?1. Page the ED health care provider (HCP) to come to triage.2. Call the client's parents for permission to treat.3. Notify the client's primary HCP.4. Take the client immediately to a treatment room.3. What is the priority nursing concept to consider in planning the initialemergency interventions for Mr. D?1. Gas exchange2. Acid-base imbalance3. Fluid and electrolyte imbalance4. Adherence4. Which tasks are appropriate to delegate to an experienced unlicensedassistive personnel (UAP)? Select all that apply.1. Measuring and reporting Mr. D's vital signs every 15 minutes4812. Checking and reporting Mr. D's blood glucose level3. Bagging and labeling Mr. D's belongings4. Updating the roommate regarding Mr. D's status5. Measuring emesis and cleaning the basin as needed6. Obtaining an infusion pump from the supply room5. For the initial emergency care of Mr. D, what is the priority collaborativetreatment goal?1. Correction of hyperglycemia with IV insulin2. Correction of acid-base imbalance using IV bicarbonate3. Correction of fluid imbalance with IV fluids4. Correction of potassium imbalance with IV potassium6. In the initial emergency care for Mr. D, which HCP prescriptions would thenurse question? Select all that apply.1. Start a peripheral IV line with a large-bore catheter.2. Obtain a urine specimen with a small-bore straight catheter.3. Administer regular insulin subcutaneously.4. Maintain the client in a semi-Fowler position.5. Initiate continuous electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring.6. Encourage intake of oral fluids as tolerated.7. What does the nurse anticipate the HCP will order for the initial fluidreplacement?1. Normal saline (0.9% sodium chloride)2. Half-strength saline (0.45% sodium chloride)3. 5% dextrose in water and half-strength saline4. Normal saline with potassium chloride8. The HCP instructs the nurse to give 1 L of IV fluid over the next hour. Theavailable IV pump delivers fluid in mL/hr and allows three digits forprogramming the flow rate. What should the nurse do first?1. Try to find a pump that will accurately deliver the fluid.2. Program the IV pump for 1 L/hr and start the infusion.3. Ask the HCP to revise the rate to accommodate the available equipment.4. Program the IV pump for 999 mL/hr and start the infusion.The arterial blood gas results for Mr. D are:pH 7.25PaO2 97 mm HgPaco2 25 mm HgBicarbonate 19 mEq/L (19 mmol/L)4829. What physical assessment finding is most likely to accompany theselaboratory results?1. Kussmaul respirations2. Dilated pupils3. Increased urination4. Elevated blood pressure10. The nurse is reviewing the potassium values that were obtained when Mr. Dfirst arrived in the ED. Which serum potassium level is most concerning?1. 3.5 mEq/L (3.5 mmol/L)2. 2 mEq/L (2 mmol/L)3. 5.8 mEq/L (5.8 mmol/L)4. 6 mEq/L (6 mmol/L)11. An insulin infusion is ordered for Mr. D to begin at 0.1 units/kg/hr. Mr. Dweighs 155 lb. The pharmacy delivers a premixed bag of 100 units of regularinsulin in 100 mL of normal saline. Nurse A has calculated the infusion pumpsetting as 10 mL/hr. What will the charge nurse do next?1. Tell Nurse A to obtain a pump and start the infusion as calculated.2. Advise Nurse A to recalculate the infusion rate.3. Call the HCP and ask for the exact pump setting to be clarified.4. Allow Nurse A to administer the infusion using her own judgment.12. Mr. D says to the nurse, “Please don’t call my mother. If she knows I’m inthe hospital, she’ll make me quit school and move back home. I know Imessed up, but I really don’t want to move back in with my parents.” What isthe best therapeutic communication response?1. “None of the staff will say anything, but you should tell her yourself.”2. “Your mom loves you, and she is just concerned about your well-being.”3. “It sounds like you want to be independent and responsible for yourself.”4. “You are an adult, and you have a right to make your own decisions.”13. The nurse overhears the UAP talking to someone on the phone. The UAPsays, “Yes, Mr. D is doing much better than when he first got here. I will tellhim that you called, and I will give him your message.” What will the nursedo first?1. Ask the UAP about the phone conversation that was just overheard.2. Remind the UAP that release of information is outside her scope ofpractice.3. Report the UAP to the nurse manager for client privacy violation.4. Give positive feedback for trying to help the client and the caller.14. The ED nurse is reviewing the intensive care unit (ICU) admission orders.There is a prescription for an IV potassium infusion. Related specifically tothe potassium infusion, which information would the ICU nurse be most483interested in knowing?1. Mental status and cognition have improved with therapy.2. Urinary output is 60 mL/hr, and urine is a clear yellow color.3. Admitting blood pressure (BP) was 100/60 mm Hg; last BP is 125/76 mmHg.4. There are two existing peripheral IV lines, and both flush easily.15. The ED nurse is preparing the SBAR (situation, background, assessment,recommendation) report before the ICU transfer. Which detail would be mostimportant to include as background to ensure that Mr. D's right to privacy ismaintained?1. Client is a premed student who was studying for finals, and this interferedwith his normal routine.2. Roommate is a medical student and a family friend, and he brought Mr. Dto the ED.3. Client has not informed family that he is in the hospital, and he is reluctantto allow notification.4. Client arrived alert and conversant, but he initially he had trouble focusingon questions.16. The ED nurse is trying to call a report to the ICU but is told, “We were notnotified about the admission.” What should the nurse do first?1. Call the admissions office supervisor to resolve the delay.2. Ask the unit secretary to call the admissions office now.3. Write an incident report; a delay violates Joint Commission guidelines.4. Ask the ICU nurse to take the report regardless of the clerical omission.17. As the nurse is getting ready to transfer Mr. D to the ICU, the unit secretaryhands the nurse the last blood glucose result, which is 150 mg/dL(8.33 mmol/L). What should the nurse do first?1. Proceed with the transfer because blood glucose is trending toward thenormal value.2. Stop the insulin infusion, proceed with the transfer, and inform the ICUnurse on arrival.3. Immediately notify the HCP and anticipate an order for IV fluid of 10%glucose.4. Slow the insulin infusion and obtain an order to have the blood glucoseredrawn.18. The nurse is preparing to transfer Mr. D to the ICU and notices the cardiacmonitor display. Which ECG pattern is cause for greatest concern?1.4842.3.4.48519. Which member of the health care team is demonstrating a behavior that is anexample of a barrier to interprofessional collaboration?1. ICU nurse asks the ED nurse to hold the client for 30 minutes until shiftchange is over.2. Admitting endocrinology specialist directs the ED nurse to change the rateof all IV fluids.3. ED provider reviews the triage nurse's admission notes before completingthe provider summary.4. ED nurse tells the charge nurse that the UAP failed to record vital signs in atimely fashion.20. In caring for Mr. D, the nurse is vigilant for signs and symptoms ofhypokalemia. What signs and symptoms should the nurse watch for? Selectall that apply.1. Fatigue2. Cold, clammy skin3. Muscle weakness4. Hypotension5. Weak pulse6. Shallow respirations21. Which tasks can the nurse direct an experienced UAP to perform to facilitateMr. D's transfer to the ICU? Select all that apply.1. Giving Mr. D's roommate directions to the ICU waiting room2. Independently transporting Mr. D to the ICU3. Collecting and organizing the chart and laboratory reports4. Obtaining a portable oxygen tank and cardiac monitor5. Connecting Mr. D's ECG leads to the portable cardiac monitor6. Obtaining the last set of vital sign values22. Which person(s) should be allowed to have access to Mr. D's medicalrecords? Select all that apply.1. ED provider who is managing Mr. D in the ED2. ED nurse who is caring for Mr. D in the ED4863. ICU who will receive Mr. D upon transfer to ICU4. Nursing student who wants to write a paper about diabetic ketoacidosis5. Roommate of Mr. D who is a medical student and a family friend6. Discharge nurse who will provide instructions and referrals at discharge487Answer Key1. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 The onset of symptoms and the amount of fluid loss help todetermine acuity. Pain assessment of the abdomen should be performed toobtain a baseline; his pain is probably associated with diabetic ketoacidosis,but infection or trauma could also be factors. If Mr. D had insulin today, thiscould affect treatment. Information about allergies should be obtained for allclients regardless of the presenting problem. Knowing when the client wasdiagnosed with diabetes does not alter the priority actions at this point.Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 4 Mr. D should be taken to a treatment room, where evaluation andtreatment can begin immediately. Paging the ED provider to come to thetriage area is not necessary unless the client becomes unresponsive in thetriage area. Calling the parents is not necessary because Mr. D is old enoughto provide consent for himself. (If Mr. D were under age, the treatment wouldnot be delayed if the parents were unavailable in an emergency situation.)Calling the primary HCP is usually done by the ED provider after thepreliminary workup is completed. (Policies for calling primary HCPs varyamong institutions.) Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 3 Mr. D is severely dehydrated and is at risk for hypovolemic shock andelectrolyte imbalance. Although he is demonstrating Kussmaul respirations,this breathing pattern is the body's attempt to compensate for the acidosis.Acid-base imbalance is usually corrected by administering fluids,electrolytes, and insulin. Adherence is relevant but can be addressed after Mr.D's condition is stabilized. Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 Checking vital signs, bagging up belongings, obtainingequipment, measuring output, and assisting with hygienic needs (e.g.,cleaning emesis basin) are within the scope of duties for the UAP. Checkingblood glucose level is accomplished with a fingerstick. UAPs, particularly inspecialty areas such as the ED, will usually receive training to do this task,but this may vary from state to state and facility to facility. Informationshould not be released by the UAP because of confidentiality issues. Releaseof information to friends and family varies by facility policies, but typicallythe RN would escort the family in to see the client as soon as possible. Focus:Delegation.5. Ans: 3 Fluid replacement is the first priority. Furthermore, the fluid dilutesthe glucose levels, which helps to correct osmotic diuresis. The serumpotassium level may not reflect the total body potassium. Hypokalemia isanticipated because of loss of potassium in the urine; however, potassiumlevels are closely monitored, and supplements are given accordingly. Insulinis given to slowly lower the blood glucose level, but this occurs afterrehydration and evaluation of potassium levels. Bicarbonate is rarely givenunless acidosis becomes life threatening; acidosis usually resolves with fluids,488electrolytes, and insulin. Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 2, 3, 6 The nurse should question the insertion of a straight catheter toobtain a urine specimen for a client who is alert and able to use a urinal orcommode because there is currently an emphasis to reduce catheterassociatedurinary tract infections. (Note to student: The HCP may order anindwelling catheter for critically ill clients because hourly urinary outputreflects cardiac output and kidney perfusion.) Subcutaneous insulin is notabsorbed fast enough and is inappropriate for emergency situations. (IVinsulin would be appropriate.) The client is likely to be on food and fluidrestrictions until the vomiting resolves. In addition, intra-abdominalconditions (e.g., appendicitis) should be ruled out before allowing oral fluids.At least one peripheral IV is needed for fluid replacement during the acuteperiod. Semi-Fowler position is preferred to reduce the risk for aspiration.ECG monitoring is appropriate for all critical care clients. In this case,electrolyte imbalances increase the risk for dysrhythmias. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: If the nurse is questioning the HCP, the planof care, or the interventions, the question is asking you to identify theincorrect options.7. Ans: 1 Normal saline (0.9% sodium chloride) is the first fluid used to correctdehydration in most adults with diabetic ketoacidosis. Half-strength saline(0.45% sodium chloride) can be used for children and adults at risk forvolume overload. Potassium supplements are added within 1 to 2 hours afterstarting insulin. Solutions of 5% dextrose are added to the therapy when theblood glucose level approaches 250 mg/dL (13.9 mmol/L). Focus:Prioritization.8. Ans: 4 Many pumps only allow 3 digits for programming flow, so the nurseknows to use the available IV pump and program the rate to 999 mL/hr. Itwould not be possible to change the pump to deliver in L/hr. Focus:Prioritization.9. Ans: 1 The arterial blood gas results indicate metabolic acidosis. The pH islow (reference range, 7.35–7.45). Bicarbonate level is low (reference range, 21–28 mEq/L [21–28 mmol/L]). PaO2 is normal because gas exchange is notimpaired in metabolic acidosis. Paco2 is decreased because the deep and rapidKussmaul respirations are the body's attempt to lower the pH by blowing offcarbon dioxide. Focus: Prioritization.10. Ans: 2 Initially in clients with diabetic ketoacidosis, the serum potassiumlevel is expected to be within normal limits or elevated; regardless of thelaboratory value, there is an overall potassium deficit. After insulin therapy,hypokalemia is expected as the potassium shifts back into the cells; therefore,if the potassium level is initially low, it will be even lower after therapy.Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Potassium imbalances can cause lethalcardiac dysthymias. It is likely that the NCLEX® Examination will includequestions about potassium levels. It is worthwhile to memorize the reference489range.11. Ans: 2 Her calculations are incorrect. The pump should be set at 7 mL/hr.155/2.2 = 70.4 kg; round to 70 kg70 kg/x units : 1 kg/0.1 units = 7 units100 units/100 mL = 1 unit/1 mL : 7 units/x mL = 7 mLCalling the HCP is inappropriate; the nurse is responsible for calculating thepump settings. Insulin is a high-alert drug, and calculations must always bedouble-checked. When discrepancies are discovered, the source of the errormust be determined and corrected. Focus: Prioritization, Supervision; TestTaking Tip: When weight is given in pounds and medications or fluids areprescribed per kilogram, pounds must first be converted to kilograms.12. Ans: 3 Acknowledging and reflecting underlying feelings is therapeutic.Options 1 and 4 give unsolicited advice, and option 2 is a platitude that is notsupported by firsthand knowledge of the mother–son relationship. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: To provide a therapeutic answer, firstdetermine what the client is trying to express; then determine the need. Inthis case, the nurse selects reflection to help Mr. D to expand on his emotionalconcerns.13. Ans: 1 First, the situation should be assessed to determine if a privacyviolation has occurred. Client information should be released only to facilitatecontinuity of care (e.g., in a shift report) and only to those who are directlyinvolved in the care. If Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act(HIPAA) rules were violated, the incident would be reported to the nursemanager for potential complaints related to the UAP's actions and so that theUAP could receive the proper remediation. Giving positive feedback forsincere efforts to assist clients and families is appropriate, but guidelinesmust be recognized and followed. Focus: Supervision.14. Ans: 2 Before potassium is administered, it is important to know that thekidneys are functioning. The other information is important but has lessrelevance to the potassium infusion. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 3 The nursing staff is likely to encourage the client to inform his family,but the ICU staff should be aware that he is resistant to notifying his family.(Note to student: Policies vary greatly, but some facilities do not allow staff toconfirm or deny the admission or discharge of clients. In such cases, the clientmay be asked to provide a list of people that can visit or phone in.) Focus:Prioritization.16. Ans: 2 Ask the secretary to correct the omission by calling the admissionsoffice right away. If the ED nurse has a good relationship with the ICU nurse,she or he will probably take the report; however, the ED nurse retainsresponsibility for the client's care until the admission procedure and transferare completed. After the client's needs are met, the nurse could investigatethe situation to determine if the admitting process can be improved. Writingan incident report would be appropriate, because The Joint Commission has a490CORE measure that addresses waiting times in the ED. Focus: Prioritization,Supervision.17. Ans: 3 Hyperglycemia should be reduced gradually, and in the critical phaseif the blood glucose falls below 250 mg/dL (13.9 mmol/L), 10% IV glucosesolution is added, and the insulin is continued. Focus: Prioritization.18. Ans: 2 Option 2 shows ventricular tachycardia, which can be associated withan electrolyte imbalance, such as hypokalemia. This is a significant cause ofdeath in clients with diabetic ketoacidosis. Option 1 shows normal sinusrhythm; note that one P wave normally precedes every QRS complex. Option3 shows atrial fibrillation (AF). Clients with AF should be assessed fordecreased cardiac output. Clients may tolerate AF, but this finding should bereported to the HCP because there is an increased risk for emboli. Option 4shows artifact, which is usually caused by loose leads or client movement.Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Rhythm interpretation takes a lot ofpractice, but ventricular dysrhythmias are among the most dangerous.Develop ability to differentiate normal from abnormal ECG findings and thenfocus study on the most serious cardiac dysrhythmias.19. Ans: 4 Before going straight to the charge nurse, the nurse should speakdirectly to the UAP about the vital signs to problem solve and find a solution.This action builds trust and team building. The ICU nurse and the ED nurseare negotiating, which is fundamental to collaboration. For clients withdiabetic ketoacidosis, fluids, rates of fluids, and medications are continuouslyadjusted according to the client's condition. By reading the nurse's notes, theED provider demonstrates respect and trust that the nurse has gatheredvaluable information that should be included in the overall summary of care.Focus: Supervision.20. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 Other signs and symptoms of hypokalemia include paralyticileus, nausea and vomiting, abdominal distention, confusion, and irritability.Cold, clammy skin is more associated with hypoglycemia or decreasedperfusion. Focus: Prioritization.21. Ans: 1, 4, 5, 6 The UAP can direct family and visitors to appropriate waitingareas, obtain equipment, and measure vital signs. An RN or HCP shouldaccompany Mr. D to the ICU; the UAP can help but should notindependently transport clients to the ICU. The unit secretary usuallyprepares the papers, but the RN is responsible for ensuring that everything isin order. In specialty areas such as the ED, UAPs may receive additionaltraining to connect clients’ cardiac leads to the cardiac monitor; however, theRN is responsible for assessing the cardiac rhythm. Focus: Delegation.22. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 6 For protection of medical information, access is restricted tostaff who are involved in the direct care of the client. Friends and family donot have access to medical records without specific consent of the client.Students are allowed some access to medical records but only if they areinvolved in the direct care of clients. Focus: Supervision.491C A S E S T U D Y 6492Home Health493QuestionsThe nurse who is working for the home health division of a public health agency arrivesfor the day with plans to make home visits to six patients:Ms. ADiagnosis: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)Data:• Called reporting increased dyspnea• Has been increasing home oxygen flow rateMr. DDiagnoses: Diabetes, chronic leg infectionData:• Needs weekly assessment of leg infection• Daily home health aide visitsMs. FDiagnosis: Chronic kidney disease with peritoneal dialysisData:• Daughter assists patient with dialysisMr. IDiagnosis: Lung cancerData:• Last chemotherapy 1 week ago• Needs to have blood drawn today at nadir for complete blood count (CBC) withdifferentialMs. RDiagnosis: Coronary artery disease with percutaneous coronary angioplasty andstentingData:• Hospital discharge yesterday• Needs home health admission assessmentMr. WDiagnosis: SchizophreniaData:• Receives risperidone injection every 4 weeks• Risperidone dose scheduled today4941. After arriving, the nurse learns about a required case management in-servicescheduled for 2:00 pm, which will leave time for only four home visits. Whichfour patients should be scheduled for today?1. Ms. A2. Mr. D3. Ms. F4. Mr. I5. Ms. R6. Mr. W2. After adjusting the schedule to see these four patients, which patient shouldbe seen first?1. Ms. A, the patient who has COPD and increased shortness of breath2. Mr. I, the patient receiving chemotherapy who will need blood drawn3. Ms. R, the patient with coronary artery disease who will need an initialassessment4. Mr. W, the patient with schizophrenia who will need a risperidone injection3. When the nurse calls Ms. R to schedule a visit, the patient says that shedoesn’t have much time today but will be available for a longer visittomorrow. What is the best response?1. “The visit will not take very long, so I will plan on seeing you today.”2. “I have rescheduled other patients because it is essential that I assess youtoday.”3. “Perhaps you are feeling that you do not really need any help at home.”4. “Because of the recent angioplasty and stenting, I would like to visit assoon as possible.”After obtaining Ms. R's consent for a visit later today, the nurse arrives at Ms. A'shome. Her husband answers the door and says that Ms. A was very short of breath andrestless last night, but now she is sleeping deeply and completely relaxed. The nursefinds that Ms. A is very difficult to awaken and that her speech is slurred. The flowmeter on her home oxygen unit is set at 6 L/min.4. Which nursing action should the nurse take next?1. Auscultate Ms. A's anterior and posterior lung sounds.2. Check Ms. A's oxygen saturation using pulse oximetry.3. Continue to stimulate Ms. A until she can respond to you.4. Notify the health care provider (HCP) about Ms. A's change in status.5. The oxygen saturation is 99% per pulse oximeter. Which action is appropriatenext?4951. Discontinue the patient's oxygen.2. Draw a sample for arterial blood gas analysis.3. Call the HCP and obtain an order to transport Ms. A to the hospital.4. Remind the patient's husband about the reasons for using oxygen at lowflow rates.The nurse calls the HCP to discuss Ms. A's status and then arranges for her admissionto the hospital for further evaluation.The nurse receives a phone call from Mr. D's home health aide, who reports that Mr.D is experiencing generalized aches and pains. His morning blood glucose level was306 mg/dL (16.98 mmol/L), and his temperature is 100.1°F (37.8°C).6. Which action by the nurse is most appropriate?1. Suggest that Mr. D take acetaminophen to treat pain and fever.2. Arrange to see Mr. D as the first patient on tomorrow's schedule.3. Reorganize today's schedule so that Mr. D can be seen and assessed.4. Reassure the aide that these findings are normal for patients with diabetes.7. Because Mr. D will be visited today, which of the three patients that arescheduled for today is best to reschedule for tomorrow?1. Mr. I, who is receiving chemotherapy and needs a blood specimen drawn2. Ms. R, who needs an initial home health visit after coronary artery stenting3. Mr. W, who is scheduled for an injection of risperidone to treatschizophrenia8. The nurse arrives at Ms. R's home as arranged, and the patient is waiting atthe door. Her respiratory effort seems a little labored, and she looks anxious.The nurse asks Ms. R how she has been feeling since her discharge from thehospital yesterday. Which response indicates a need for immediateintervention?1. “I have been a bit short of breath.”2. “I feel some left-sided chest pressure.”3. “I don’t understand why I need to take all these pills.”4. “I am confused about why you are here to see me.”9. Five minutes after taking a nitroglycerin sublingual tablet, Ms. R says that thechest pressure is “almost gone.” Which action should the nurse take next?1. Proceed with assessing her and completing the admission documentation.2. Have her rest for another 5 minutes and then reassess the chest pressure.3. Check her blood pressure and administer another nitroglycerin tablet.4. Call the HCP, anticipating an order to readmit her to the hospital.496After taking a second nitroglycerin tablet, Ms. R says that the chest pressure andshortness of breath are completely gone, and the nurse proceeds with the admissionassessment. Ms. R lives alone, but her daughter lives nearby and is with Ms. R today.Ms. R's blood pressure is 126/72 mm Hg, pulse is 82 beats/min, and respirations are20 breaths/min. She has felt chest pressure twice since her discharge yesterday butsays, “I just waited and it went away after an hour or so.” She has not been taking herprescribed medications because “I can’t remember which ones I have taken, and I don’twant to take an overdose.” She has many questions about her medications, whichinclude:• Nitroglycerin 0.4 mg sublingually as needed for chest pain• Transdermal nitroglycerin 0.2 mg/hr every morning• Metoprolol succinate 25 mg PO daily• Clopidogrel 75 mg PO daily• Aspirin 81 mg PO daily• Enalapril 2.5 mg PO daily10. Which action should the nurse take next?1. Schedule the next home visit with the patient.2. Assist the patient to take the prescribed medications.3. Call the HCP to report the patient's condition.4. Remind the patient about the importance of medication compliance.11. Which activities in the patient's care plan will the nurse delegate to a homehealth aide? Select all that apply.1. Setting up Ms. R's medications in a multidose pill box twice a week2. Instructing the daughter how to set up Ms. R's daily medications3. Teaching Ms. R and her daughter the purpose of each medication4. Assisting Ms. R with a bath and personal hygiene every day5. Measuring vital signs daily6. Weighing the patient daily7. Checking for any peripheral edema weekly12. When will the nurse schedule the next home visit with Ms. R?1. Later today because Ms. R's condition is very unstable and she may requirehospital readmission2. Tomorrow because Ms. R's assessment indicates that she needs frequentevaluation or interventions3. In 3 days because the home health aide will see Ms. R every day and willcall if there are any further problems4. Early next week so that there will be enough time to evaluate the effect ofthe medications on Ms. R's symptoms49713. The nurse still has visits to make to Mr. D and Mr. I before the mandatory inservicesession. Which patient should be visited first?1. Mr. D, who has diabetes and has an elevated glucose and fever2. Mr. I, who has lung cancer and is receiving chemotherapyWhile driving to the next home visit, the nurse receives a telephone call from the homehealth manager about a newly referred 70-year-old patient with emphysema who willneed an initial visit today to evaluate the need for home oxygen therapy.14. Which staff member will the nurse suggest as the best person to make theinitial home visit for this new patient?1. An experienced and knowledgeable LPN/LVN who has worked for 10years in home health2. A respiratory therapist who regularly works with patients who arereceiving home oxygen therapy3. An RN who usually works in the maternal-child division of the publichealth agency4. An on-call RN who works in the home health agency for a few days eachmonth on an as-needed basis15. When the nurse arrives at Mr. I's condominium, his wife says that Mr. I isvery lethargic and a little confused today. Usually he is well oriented andcheerful despite his diagnosis of right-sided lung cancer. Which informationnoted during the assessment is the best indicator that rapid nursing action isneeded?1. Breath sounds are decreased on the right posterior chest.2. Mr. I says that his appetite has not been very good recently.3. Mr. I's oral temperature is 101°F (38.3°C).4. The oral mucosa is pale and dry.16. The nurse calls the oncologist to discuss Mr. I's condition and receivesdirections to have the patient transported to the hospital emergencydepartment (ED) for evaluation. Which information is most important tocommunicate when calling a report to the ED?1. Mr. I has lung cancer and decreased breath sounds.2. Mr. I's appetite and oral intake are decreased.3. Mr. I needs a CBC today.4. Mr. I is receiving chemotherapy and has a fever.In preparation for the final visit of the day to Mr. D, the nurse checks the patient datathat the home health aide has entered into the electronic record for this week:49817. Which data in the table are most important to report to the HCP? Select allthat apply.1. Temperature2. Heart rate3. Respiratory rate4. Blood pressure5. Weight6. Glucose levelThe nurse assesses Mr. D, finding that the wound on his left heel is dry appearing andpale pink, with no wound drainage.There are scattered coarse crackles and wheezes over the left posterior chest. Mr. Dsays he feels short of breath with activity, but “my breathing is fine when I rest.” Hehas been coughing up some thick green mucus for the last few days. He has beenvoiding the usual amounts with no problems. He is using regular insulin with slidingscaledosing as prescribed for elevated blood glucose levels.18. After communicating Mr. D's findings to the HCP, in which order will thenurse implement the prescribed interventions?1. Give ciprofloxacin 500 mg orally now and instruct the patient to take themedication every 12 hours.2. Obtain blood specimens for culture from two separate sites.3. Check the oxygen saturation level.4. Teach the patient about the use of antibiotics and to increase fluid intake to2000 mL/day. _____, _____, _____, _____After discussing Mr. D's plan of care with him and with the home health aide, thenurse returns to the agency, where the mandatory in-service topic is how to prioritizecare in the home health setting.499Answer Key1. Ans: 1, 4, 5, 6 Ms. A's dyspnea and increased use of oxygen require rapidassessment. Mr. I's sample for a CBC must be drawn when the bone marrowis most suppressed to accurately assess the impact of chemotherapy on bonemarrow function. Ms. R should be seen as soon as possible after discharge todetermine the plan of care. Mr. W needs to receive the scheduled dose ofrisperidone. Mr. D and Ms. F do not have urgent needs, and these visits canbe rescheduled for the following day. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 1 Ms. A's increased shortness of breath indicates a need for rapidassessment. In addition, high oxygen flow rates can cause an increase in thepartial pressure of carbon dioxide (Paco2) and suppression of respiratorydrive in patients with COPD, so Ms. A should be seen as soon as possible.The other patients can be scheduled according to criteria such as location orpatient preference about visit time. Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 4 In the home health setting, the patient is in control of healthmanagement, so enlisting the patient's cooperation for the visit is essential. Inthis response, the nurse indicates that the patient has a choice about whetherthe visit is scheduled for today but educates the patient about why it isimportant that the visit occur as soon as possible. Because the initial visitrequires a multidimensional assessment, it is usually quite lengthy. Thepatient's comments do not indicate a lack of need or desire for home healthservices. Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 2 The patient has symptoms and risk factors that could indicate that heroxygen saturation is either excessively high or too low, so checking oxygensaturation is the first action that should be taken. The other actions may alsobe appropriate, but assessment of oxygen saturation will determine whichaction should occur next. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 1 Since the goal for oxygen saturation for a patient with COPD is usually90% to 94% (0.90 to 0.94), because high oxygen levels can decrease respiratorydrive and lead to increases in Paco2, the nurse's first action should be todiscontinue the oxygen for this patient. The next step is to notify the HCP,who may want to admit the patient to the hospital or order arterial blood gasanalysis. It will be important to discuss appropriate home oxygen use withthe patient and her husband but not until the immediate situation is resolved.Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Remember that some patients withCOPD may have a decrease in respiratory drive if oxygen saturations areelevated. Although administration of a high oxygen percentage may benecessary if the patient is hypoxemic, you will need to monitor the patient'soxygen saturation carefully and adjust the oxygen flow rate down as thepatient's oxygen saturation improves.6. Ans: 3 Generalized aches and pains, an elevated temperature, and an elevated500glucose level are signs of infection in patients with diabetes, indicating asignificant change in the patient's status and need for further assessment.Acetaminophen may be indicated for discomfort but will not treat infection.Because diabetes decreases immune function and increases the risk forserious infections, the nurse should not wait another day before seeing thepatient. Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 3 Although the risperidone is scheduled for today, the medication isabsorbed gradually, and rescheduling the dose for tomorrow will not have anadverse impact on control of the patient's schizophrenia. The other patientshave more urgent needs and should receive visits today. Focus: Prioritization.8. Ans: 2 The chest pressure indicates that Ms. R may be experiencingmyocardial ischemia and requires immediate assessment and intervention(e.g., administration of sublingual nitroglycerin). The shortness of breathrequires further investigation and is likely to related to the chest pressure andmyocardial ischemia. The other responses also indicate the need for furtherassessment and interventions such as teaching but do not require immediateaction. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Report of chest pain or chestpressure in a patient with known coronary artery disease is a red flag thatrequires immediate assessment and intervention. Do not minimize thisfinding or allow the patient to minimize the symptom. Remember that anginasignifies coronary ischemia and the goal for treatment is that chest discomfortis completely absent (0 on a 1–10 scale).9. Ans: 3 National guidelines for patients with coronary artery disease indicatethat, if the chest pain is improving after nitroglycerin administration, givinganother nitroglycerin tablet is the first action to take. Completing theadmission assessment, having her rest, and notifying the HCP about her chestpain are also appropriate actions, but administration of another nitroglycerintablet and resolution of the chest discomfort are the priorities. Focus:Prioritization.10. Ans: 2 Because the patient has not taken the prescribed medications tocontrol coronary artery disease and angina, the nurse's first action will be toensure that the medications are taken. Scheduling the next home visit,educating about the medications, and communicating with the HCP are allappropriate but can be done later in the visit. Focus: Prioritization; TestTaking Tip: In taking a test, carefully read all information that is supplied. Ifyou missed this answer, go back and read the information that precedes thequestion and the answer will be clear.11. Ans: 4, 5, 6 Home health aide education and scope of practice includeassisting with personal hygiene and obtaining routine data such as vital signvalues and daily weights. It is the RN's responsibility to evaluate these dataand plan individualized care using the data. Assessments, medicationpreparation, and patient teaching about medications require more educationand broader scope of practice and should be performed by the RN. Focus:Delegation.50112. Ans: 2 The focus in home health nursing is empowering the patient andfamily members by teaching self-care. Ms. R's condition is not so unstablethat she needs to be reassessed today because her chest pain did resolve aftershe took two nitroglycerin tablets, she has taken her medications, and herdaughter will be available. The patient's symptoms of chest discomfort andconfusion about how to take her medications do indicate a need forreassessment the next day. Although the home health aide will visit, theeducation and role of the home health aide do not include evaluating thepatient's response to prescribed therapies and planning changes in care basedon the evaluation. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 2 Because Mr. I is in the nadir period after his chemotherapy, he is athigh risk for infection. Avoidance of any cross-contamination from Mr. D'sleg infection is essential. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 4 The initial assessment and development of the plan of care, includinginterventions such as oxygen therapy, are the responsibility of RN staffmembers. The RN with the most experience in caring for patients withemphysema is the on-call part-time RN. Some patient care activities areassigned to staff members from other disciplines, such as LPN/LVNs andrespiratory therapists, after the plan of care is developed by the RN. Focus:Assignment.15. Ans: 3 Chemotherapy decreases the patient's ability to mount a fever inresponse to infection, so even a minor increase in temperature (especially incombination with symptoms such as lethargy and confusion) can be anindicator of a serious infection, including sepsis. The decreased right-sidedbreath sounds are consistent with the patient's diagnosis of lung cancer. Thepoor appetite and dry oral mucous membranes also require assessment andintervention, but infection is one of the most serious complications ofchemotherapy. Focus: Prioritization.16. Ans: 4 Mr. I's immunosuppression, fever, and possible sepsis diagnosisindicate that he should be assessed and treated immediately when he arrivesin the ED. The other information will also be helpful but will not ensure thatMr. I is assessed and that treatment with antibiotics is initiated rapidly.Focus: Prioritization.17. Ans: 1, 4, 6 The elevated temperatures and blood glucose levels suggest apossible infectious process and should be reported to the HCP so thatinterventions can be quickly implemented to prevent complications such assepsis, diabetic ketoacidosis, or hyperglycemic hyperosmolar nonketoticcoma. The blood pressures should also be reported because current nationalguidelines indicate that blood pressure for patients with diabetes should bemaintained at a level of less than 130/80 mm Hg to decrease cardiovascularrisk. The pulse, respiratory rate, and weight are stable and in appropriaterange. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Diabetes and hypertension aretwo of the most common diagnoses that you will encounter (both on theNCLEX® and in your career). It is important to be familiar with normal502values and national guidelines to help in decision making about how tomanage patients with these problems.18. Ans: 3, 2, 1, 4 Mr. D's assessment suggests that he has an acute lowerrespiratory tract infection such as pneumonia. Because his oxygenation maybe compromised, the first action should be to determine his oxygensaturation. National guidelines indicate that initiation of antibiotics is apriority whenever patients have an infection, but if cultures are prescribed,they should be obtained before starting antibiotic therapy. Teaching aboutself-care can be done after the other interventions are implemented. Focus:Prioritization.503C A S E S T U D Y 7504Spinal Cord Injury505QuestionsMr. M is a 32-year-old man brought to the emergency department (ED) by paramedicsafter a fall from the second-story roof of his home. He was placed on a spinal board witha cervical collar to immobilize his spine. After spinal radiographs are obtained, thehealth care provider (HCP) determines that he has a vertebral compression injury atthe C4 to C5 level.1. Which questions would the nurse ask the paramedics to obtain a history ofthe client's acute spinal cord injury (SCI)? Select all that apply.1. What was the location and position of the client immediately after theinjury?2. Did the client experience symptoms before the injury?3. Have any changes occurred since the injury?4. What type of stabilization devices were used to stabilize the client?5. Were any other persons injured at the same time at the client?6. What treatments were given at the injury scene and en route to the ED?2. What is the nurse's priority concern during admission to the ED?1. Spinal immobilization to prevent additional injuries to the client2. Airway status because of interruption of spinal innervation to therespiratory muscles3. Potential for injuries related to the client's decreased sensation4. Dysrhythmias caused by disruption of the autonomic nervous system3. The ED nurse assists the ED HCP in testing Mr. M's deep tendon reflexes(DTRs) which are all absent. What does the nurse suspect is the likely causeof the absent DTRs?1. Spinal shock2. Stabilization devices3. Lack of oxygen to the nerves4. Neurogenic shock4. Mr. M is stabilized and moved to the neurologic intensive care unit with adiagnosis of SCI at level C4 to C5. As the admitting RN working with anexperienced unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP), when frequent respiratoryassessments are performed, which actions can the RN delegate to the UAP?Select all that apply.1. Auscultating breath sounds every hour to detect decreased or absentventilation5062. Ensuring that oxygen is flowing at 5 L/min via the nasal cannula3. Teaching the client to breathe slowly and deeply and use incentivespirometry4. Checking the client's oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry every 2 hours5. Assessing the client's chest wall movement during respirations6. Recording accurate intake and output5. An hour later, the UAP informs the RN that Mr. M's oxygen saturation hasdropped to 88%, and his respirations are rapid and shallow at 34 breaths/min.On auscultation, he has decreased breath sounds bilaterally. What is thenurse's best action at this time?1. Increase the oxygen flow to 10 L/min.2. Suction the client's airway for oral secretions.3. Notify the HCP immediately.4. Call the respiratory therapist for a nonrebreather mask.6. Which instructions would the RN give the experienced UAP with regard toMr. M's care at this time? Select all that apply.1. Check and record vital signs every 15 minutes.2. Use pulse oximetry to check oxygen saturation with each set of vital signs.3. Increase oxygen flow rate by 2 L/min when oxygen saturation is more than91%.4. Empty the client's urinary catheter bag and record the output.5. Teach the client how to perform coughing and deep breathing.6. Immediately report decrease in oxygen saturation or increase in respiratoryrate.The HCP prescribes that Mr. M receive endotracheal intubation and be placed onmechanical ventilation; his oxygen saturation increases to 96%, and respirationsdecrease to 18 breaths/min (10 ventilator breaths per minute). On auscultation, he hasbreath sounds present in all lung lobes bilaterally.7. The nurse is caring for Mr. M when the ventilator's high-pressure alarm goesoff. What intervention is the client likely to need at this time?1. Assessment of all ventilator tubing for disconnection2. Evaluation of the client's endotracheal (ET) tube for a cuff leak3. Suction the client for an increased amount of secretions4. Notification of the respiratory therapist to assess the machine8. Mr. M has stabilized and has been weaned off the ventilator. The neurologicintensive care unit nurse is to remove the ET tube. Which actions will thenurse take before removing the tube? Select all that apply.5071. Set up an oxygen delivery system.2. Bring emergency equipment for reintubation to the bedside.3. Hyperoxygenate the client.4. Rapidly deflate the ET tube cuff.5. Instruct the client to cough while the tube is removed.6. Administer oxygen by face mask.9. The client's cervical injury has been immobilized with cervical tongs andtraction to realign the vertebrae, facilitate bone healing, and prevent furtherinjury. Which occurrence necessitates the nurse's immediate intervention?1. The traction weights are resting on the floor after the client is repositioned.2. The traction ropes are located within the pulley and are hanging freely.3. The insertion sites for the cervical tongs are cleaned with hydrogenperoxide.4. The client is repositioned every 2 hours by using the logrolling technique.10. Mr. M's care plan has a nursing concern of impaired mobility. Which actionsshould the RN delegate to the nursing student providing care for this clienton the neurology unit? Select all that apply.1. Administering 50 mg of IV ranitidine in 50 mL of normal saline to preventgastric ulcers2. Monitoring traction ropes and weights while the client is repositioned3. Assessing the client's neurologic status for changes in movement andstrength4. Providing pin site care using hydrogen peroxide and normal saline5. Adding a nursing concern to the care plan for the client of risk fordepression6. Checking vital signs and oxygen saturation11. Which action to prevent complications associated with Mr. M's nursingconcern of impaired mobility should the RN delegate to the experiencedUAP?1. Assisting with turning and repositioning the client in bed every 2 hours2. Inspecting the client's skin for reddened areas3. Performing range-of-motion exercises every 8 hours4. Administering enoxaparin subcutaneously every 12 hours12. The nursing student asks the nurse how best to assess Mr. M's motorfunction. What is the nurse's best response?1. “Apply resistance while the client plantar flexes his feet.”2. “Apply resistance while the client lifts his legs from the bed.”3. “Apply downward pressure while the client shrugs his shoulders upward.”4. “Make sure the client is able to grasp objects firmly and form a fist.”50813. The UAP reports that Mr. M's blood pressure is 178/98 mm Hg; his heart rateis 50 beats/min; he is sweating around his face, neck, and shoulders; and hereports a severe headache. What does the nurse suspect when assessing thisclient?1. Spinal shock2. Autonomic dysreflexia3. Neurogenic shock4. Venous thromboembolism14. Which actions should the nurse take in caring for Mr. M at this time? Selectall that apply.1. Place the client in bed in the prone position.2. Notify the HCP.3. Check the client's bladder for urinary retention.4. Place an incontinence pad on the client.5. For bladder distention, catheterize the client.6. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate every 10 to 15 minutes.15. Mr. M's condition has stabilized. His cervical injury is now immobilizedwith a halo fixation device with jacket. He has regained the use of his armsand partial movement in his legs. Which instruction should the nurse give theUAP providing help to Mr. M in activities of daily living?1. “Feed, bathe, and dress the client so that he does not become fatigued.”2. “Encourage the client to perform all of his own self-care.”3. “Allow the client to do what he can and then assist with what he can’t.”4. “Let the client's wife do the bathing and dressing.”16. Mr. M is very upset and tells the nurse that he is afraid his wife will divorcehim because he is “no longer a man.” What is the nurse's best response at thistime?1. “Have you spoken with your wife about this yet?”2. “Let me call your health care provider to talk with you about this.”3. “Do you have any children with your wife?”4. “Can you tell me more so I can understand how you are feeling?”17. Mr. M is experiencing incontinence. The nurse plans to establish a bladderretraining program for him. Which actions are important points for thisprogram? Select all that apply.1. Remove the indwelling Foley catheter.2. Encourage the client to limit fluid intake to 1000 mL/day.3. Gradually increase intervals between catheterizations.4. Teach the patent to initiate voiding by tapping on his bladder every 4hours.5095. Teach the client to perform self-catheterization if necessary.6. Administer bethanechol chloride 20 mg orally twice a day.18. Mr. M is to be transferred to a rehabilitation facility. Which statementindicates that the client needs additional teaching?1. “After rehabilitation, I may be able to achieve control of my bladder.”2. “With rehabilitation, I will regain all of my motor functions.”3. “Rehabilitation will help me to become as independent as possible.”4. “After rehabilitation, I hope to return to gainful employment.”510Answer Key1. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 6 When obtaining a history from a client with an acute SCI, gatheras much data as possible about how the accident occurred and the probablemechanism of injury after the client is stabilized. Questions asked by thenurse should include:• Location and position of the client immediately after the injury• Symptoms that occurred immediately with the injury• Changes that have occurred since the injury• Type of immobilization devices used and whether problems occurredduring stabilization and transport to the hospital• Treatment given at the scene of injury or in the ED (e.g., medications, IVfluids)• Medical history, including osteoporosis or arthritis of the spine, congenitaldeformities, cancer, and previous injury or surgery of the neck or back• History of respiratory problems especially if the client has experienced acervical SCIFocus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 2 The priority at the time of admission to the ED with an SCI at the C4 toC5 level is airway and respiratory status. The cervical spine nerves C3 to C5innervate the phrenic nerve, which controls the diaphragm. Careful andfrequent assessments are necessary, and ET intubation may be required toprevent respiratory arrest. The other three concerns are appropriate but arenot urgent like airway and respiratory status. Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 1 The HCP tests DTRs, including the biceps (C5), triceps (C7), patella(L3), and ankle (S1). It is not unusual for these reflexes, as well as all mobilityor sensory perception, to be absent immediately after the injury because ofspinal shock. When spinal shock has resolved, the reflexes may return if thelesion is incomplete. Complete but temporary loss of motor, sensory, reflex,and autonomic function often lasts less than 48 hours but may continue forseveral weeks. Spinal shock is not the same as neurogenic shock. Neurogenicshock results from hypotension and sometimes occurs with bradycardia. Itcan be caused by severe damage in the central nervous system, whichincludes the brain and cervical and thoracic spinal cord. The trauma or injurybrings sudden loss of sympathetic stimulation of the blood vessels, causingblood vessels to relax and leading to a rapid decrease in blood pressure.Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 2, 4, 6 The experienced UAP can make sure that the oxygen flow settingis correct and that the cannula is in place after instructed by the RN. Theexperienced UAP would also know how to measure oxygen saturation bypulse oximetry. Measuring and recording intake and output is within the511scope of practice for a UAP. The nurse retains responsibility for ensuring thatthe client's oxygen flow rate is correct and interpreting oxygen saturationmeasurements. Assessments, including auscultation, and client teachingrequire additional education, training, and skill and are appropriate to thescope of practice of the RN. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.5. Ans: 3 The nurse should notify the HCP immediately. The client's symptomsindicate the strong possibility of impending respiratory arrest. This clientprobably needs ET intubation and mechanical ventilation. Focus:Prioritization.6. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 6 Checking vital signs and recording urine output are both withinthe UAP's scope of practice. He or she would also know how to empty theclient's catheter bag. Instructing the UAP to report an increase in respiratoryrate or a decrease in oxygen saturation is essential because these findingsindicate worsening of the client's condition. An experienced UAP would alsohave the skill and knowledge to operate a pulse oximetry device. An oxygensaturation of 91% would be acceptable and would not require increasing theoxygen flow rate. Teaching would require additional skills included withinthe scope of practice for the professional RN. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.7. Ans: 3 The high-pressure ventilator alarm commonly is an indication that theclient has increased secretions and needs to be suctioned. The nurse couldauscultate for coarse crackles over the trachea because this is also a verycommon indication that suctioning is needed. Tubing disconnection or cuffair leak would set off the low-pressure alarm. The nurse should assess theclient first and then the machine to discover the problem. If he or she cannotdetermine the problem, then the RN should manually ventilate the clientwhile the respiratory therapist is notified and determines the problem. Focus:Prioritization.8. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 4 Before extubation (tube removal), oxygen would be set up,emergency equipment would be brought to the bedside, the client would behyperoxygenated, and the tube cuff would be deflated. The client would notbe asked to cough, and oxygen would not be applied by face mask or nasalcannula until after the tube has been removed. Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 1 The traction weights must be hanging freely at all times to maintainthe cervical traction and prevent further injury. The other options areappropriate for the care of a client with cervical tongs. Focus: Prioritization;Test Taking Tip: A question like this is asking the nurse to recognize actionsor findings that can be harmful to the client. In this case, when the weights donot hang freely, there is no traction to keep the client's spine aligned.10. Ans: 1, 4, 6 A nursing student can administer medications and simpletreatments such as cervical tong pin care under the supervision of an RN. Heor she can also check and record vital signs and oxygen saturation. Thenursing student should be mentored by the nurse when monitoring tractionduring client repositioning and performing neurologic assessments. The512nurse should also mentor the student with regard to adding to the client'scare plan because planning care is within the scope of practice for theprofessional RN. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.11. Ans: 1 The experienced UAP has been taught how to reposition clients whilemaintaining proper body alignment. The nurse remains responsible forensuring that this action is performed correctly. Inspecting a client's skin andadministering medications requires additional education and skill and areappropriately performed by licensed nurses. Performing range-of-motionexercises also requires additional education and skill and is appropriate tothe scope of practice of licensed nurses and physical therapists. However,some UAPs are given extra training and are able to perform range-of-motionexercises for clients. The skill level and job descriptions of UAP teammembers should be checked to determine their ability to perform range-ofmotionexercises. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.12. Ans: 3 Mr. M has a level C4 to C5 spinal injury. The best way to assess motorfunctions in a client with this injury is to apply downward pressure while theclient shrugs his shoulders upward. Testing plantar flexion assesses S1-levelinjuries. Applying resistance when the client lifts the legs assesses injuries atthe L2 to L4 level. Having a client grasp and form a fist assesses C8-levelinjuries. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 2 Autonomic dysreflexia is a possibly life-threatening condition inwhich noxious visceral or cutaneous stimuli cause a sudden, massive,uninhibited reflex sympathetic discharge in clients with high-level SCI.Symptoms include elevated blood pressure, bradycardia, profusediaphoresis, flushing, blurred vision, spots in the visual field, and severethrobbing headache. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 2, 3, 5, 6 The client's symptoms indicate the possibility of autonomicdysreflexia, which can be life threatening. Immediate interventions for thisclient include placing in a sitting position or previous safe position, notifyingthe HCP, checking for urinary retention, and catheterization if the client doesnot already have a catheter. The nurse would check an indwelling catheter'stubing for kinks or obstruction. Vital signs should be checked at least every10 to 15 minutes. Other actions that could be taken include checking for fecalimpaction or worsening of an existing pressure ulcer. If the HCP prescribesdrugs, nifedipine or a nitrate may be administered. An incontinence pad isnot necessary at this time. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 3 The client should be encouraged to perform as much self-care as he isable to do, and the UAP should help with care the client is unable tocomplete. The client's wife should also be taught to encourage the client to doas much as possible for himself. Focus: Prioritization, Delegation,Supervision.16. Ans: 4 Clients experiencing a SCI often have significant behavioral andemotional problems as a result of changes in functional ability, body image,513role performance, and self-concept. Assess clients for their reaction to theinjury and provide opportunities to listen to their concerns. Be realistic abouttheir abilities and projected function but offer hope and encouragement.Options 1, 2, and 3 do not acknowledge the client's immediate concern so arenot the best way to respond. With option 4, the nurse indicates that he or shehears what the client is saying and is listening in a supportive andnonjudgmental manner. The nurse needs to assist the client to verbalizefeelings and fears about body image, self-concept, role performance, selfesteem,and sexuality. After understanding the client's concerns, the nursemay be able to refer the client to a sexuality or intimacy counselor. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: When a client indicates to the nurse that heor she is upset and concerned, the most immediately important role of thenurse is to listen, gather more information, and offer support in anonjudgmental manner.17. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 Clients should be taught to drink 2000 to 2500 mL of fluideach day to prevent urinary tract infections and calculus formation. Theymay be taught to decrease the amount of fluid intake after 6:00 to 7:00 pm todecrease the need to void or to self-catheterize in the middle of the night. Theother points are appropriate for a bladder training program. Focus:Prioritization.18. Ans: 2 The first, third, and fourth statements are reasonable client goals forrehabilitation. The second statement likely represents an unrealisticexpectation, and the client needs additional teaching about setting realisticgoals for rehabilitation. Focus: Prioritization.514C A S E S T U D Y 8515Multiple Patients With Adrenal GlandDisorders516QuestionsMs. B is a 68-year-old woman admitted to the medical unit through the emergencydepartment (ED) after being hit in the abdomen by an automobile while walking home.An 18-gauge IV catheter was inserted in the left forearm, and normal saline wasstarted at 100 mL/hr. ED vital signs were blood pressure, 118/80 mm Hg; heart rate,82 beats/min; respiratory rate, 26 breaths/min; and oral temperature, 98.4°F (36.9°C).Ms. B has a small dressing to a wound on her right side with a small amount ofserosanguinous drainage present.The unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP) checks her vital signs while she is lyingdown with the head of her bed elevated and reports that the patient's blood pressure isnow 92/58 mm Hg, and she describes feelings of weakness, fatigue, and abdominalpain. When the nurse assesses Ms. B, it is also discovered that she is nauseated and hasjust vomited 560 mL of greenish fluid and undigested food from breakfast.Laboratory values from the ED were as follows:Aldosterone level 3 ng/dL (low) (0.083 nmol/L)Cortisol level 2 mcg/dL (low) (55.18 nmol/L)Potassium level 5.2 mEq/L (5.2 mmol/L)Sodium level 136 mEq/L (136 mmol/L)1. Based on the assessment of Ms. B, what is the nurse's first action?1. Administer an antiemetic.2. Measure abdominal girth.3. Notify the health care provider (HCP).4. Start another IV and hang another bag of normal saline.2. The UAP informs the nurse that Ms. B's blood pressure is now 84/50 mm Hg.Which prescribed action by the HCP would the nurse implement first?1. Infuse normal saline at 250 mL/hr.2. Type and cross-match for 2 units of packed red blood cells.3. Insert a second large-bore IV catheter.4. Administer prednisone 10 mg PO.3. What are three key components of emergency management of a patient withadrenocortical insufficiency? Select all that apply.1. Hormone replacement with hydrocortisone2. Administration of potassium-sparing diuretics3. Hypoglycemia management with IV glucose4. Subcutaneous insulin before meals and at bedtime5. Hyperkalemia management with a potassium-binding and potassiumexcretingresin5176. Fluid restrictions to maintain body weight and prevent edema4. Which actions will the nurse delegate to the UAP in providing care for Ms. B?Select all that apply.1. Encouraging the patient to take in adequate oral fluids2. Measuring vital signs every 15 minutes3. Recording intake and output accurately every hour4. Getting a baseline weight to guide therapy5. Administering oral antinausea medication6. Assisting the patient up to the bathroom5. Which patient care action would the nurse assign to an experiencedLPN/LVN?1. Interpret Ms. B's lab values.2. Change Ms. B's dressing to her right side.3. Prepare a nursing care plan for Ms. B.4. Administer IV promethazine for nausea.6. Ms. B develops diaphoresis, an increased heart rate (124 beats/min), andtremors. She also reports an increasing headache. Which action should thenurse take first?1. Check the fingerstick glucose level.2. Check the serum potassium level.3. Place the patient on a cardiac monitor.4. Decrease IV fluids to 100 mL/hr.Ms. H is admitted to the acute medical-surgical unit for a workup for Cushing disease.7. Which vital sign value reported to the RN by the UAP is of most concern for apatient with Cushing disease (hypercortisolism)?1. Heart rate of 102 beats/min2. Respiratory rate of 26 breaths/min3. Blood pressure of 156/88 mm Hg4. Oral temperature of 101.8°F (38.8°C)8. Which factor reported by Ms. H to the nurse supports the diagnosis ofCushing disease?1. Cessation of menses at age 33 years2. Increased craving for salty foods3. Weight loss of 25 lb4. Nausea, diarrhea, and loss of appetite5189. The RN is supervising a nursing student who will assess Ms. H. Whichfindings will the RN teach the student nurse to expect in a patient withCushing disease? Select all that apply.1. Truncal obesity2. Weight loss3. Bruising4. Hypertension5. Thickened skin6. Dependent edema10. Which laboratory values would the nurse expect to find for Ms. H? Select allthat apply.1. Elevated serum cortisol level2. Decreased serum sodium level3. Elevated serum glucose level4. Decreased lymphocyte count5. Increased serum calcium level6. Decreased urine androgen level11. Cushing disease is diagnosed in Ms. H because of hypercortisolism(increased secretion of cortisol), and she is scheduled for an adrenalectomy.Which preoperative actions should the nurse assign to the LPN/LVN? Selectall that apply.1. Assessing the patient's cardiac rhythm2. Reviewing the patient's laboratory results3. Checking the patient's fingerstick glucose results4. Administering insulin on a sliding scale as needed5. Discussing goals and outcomes of care with the patient6. Giving the patient oral preoperative medications12. A nursing concern of risk for infection related to immunosuppression andinadequate primary defenses has been identified for Ms. H. Which nursingcare actions should the RN delegate to the UAP? Select all that apply.1. Providing the patient with a soft toothbrush2. Instructing the patient to avoid activities that can result in skin trauma3. Reminding the patient to change positions in bed every 2 hours4. Assessing the patient's skin for reddened areas, excoriation, and edema5. Ensuring that the patient has tissues and a bag for disposal of used tissues6. Teaching the patient to avoid crowded areas and people with coldsymptoms13. The RN is teaching a UAP about fluid retention when a patient such as Ms.H is diagnosed with Cushing disease. Which method does the RN instruct the519UAP is best for indicating fluid retention?1. Strict intake and output measures2. Measuring urine specific gravity3. Checking daily weights with the same scale4. Comparing ankle swelling on a day by day basis14. Ms. H had a complete adrenalectomy, and the nurse is preparing to teachher about cortisol replacement therapy. Which key points should be includedin the teaching plan? Select all that apply.1. “Take your medication in divided doses, with the first dose in the morningand the second dose between 4:00 and 6:00 pm.”2. “Take your medications on an empty stomach to facilitate absorption.”3. “Weigh yourself daily using the same scale and wearing the same amountof clothes.”4. “Never skip a dose of medication.”5. “Call your doctor if you experience persistent nausea, severe diarrhea, orfever.”6. “Report any rapid weight gain, round face, fluid retention, or swelling toyour doctor.”Ms. L is a 59-year-old woman who is admitted after experiencing intermittent episodesof high blood pressure accompanied by headaches, diaphoresis, and chest pain. She tellsthe admitting nurse that she gets frightened and feels a “sense of doom” when theseepisodes occur. The endocrinologist has ordered hospitalization to rule outpheochromocytoma.15. Which assessment action should the nurse avoid when admitting Ms. L?1. Palpating the patient's abdomen2. Checking the patient's extremity reflexes3. Testing the pupillary reaction to light4. Measuring baseline weight with the patient standing16. The HCP orders a 24-hour urine collection for vanillylmandelic acid (VMA),metanephrine, and catecholamine testing. Which instruction given to Ms. Lby a nursing student would cause the nurse to intervene?1. “You will be on a special diet for 2 to 3 days before the urine collection forthis test.”2. “You should not drink caffeinated beverages or eat citrus fruits, bananas, orchocolate.”3. “You will take your usual medications, including the aspirin and the betablockerfor your high blood pressure.”5204. “In 2 to 3 days, you will begin the 24-hour urine collection after discardingthe first void in the morning.”17. In providing nursing care for Ms. L, which action should the nurse delegateto the UAP?1. Working with the patient to identify stressful situations that may lead to ahypertensive crisis2. Reminding the patient not to smoke, drink caffeinated beverages, or changepositions suddenly3. Assessing the patient's hydration status and reporting manifestations ofdehydration or fluid overload4. Telling the patient to limit activity and remain in a calm, restfulenvironment during headaches18. As the charge nurse, which patients would be appropriate to assign to anewly graduated RN who has just completed orientation to the unit? Selectall that apply.1. Ms. L with pheochromocytoma, who is scheduled for adrenalectomy andneeds preoperative teaching2. Ms. B with adrenal gland hypofunction, whose blood pressure is droppingand who is experiencing Addisonian crisis3. Ms. H with Cushing disease, who is very anxious and fearful about herscheduled adrenal surgery4. Mr. J with hyperaldosteronism, whose current serum potassium level is3.2 mEq/L (3.2 mmol/L)5. Mr. M with rule-out Addison disease, who is newly admitted with muscleweakness, weight loss, and hypotension6. Ms. A, who was admitted 2 days ago to rule out hyperaldosteronism19. The nurse is caring for a male patient with hyperaldosteronism who is not acandidate for adrenalectomy surgery. Which interventions would the nurseexpect the HCP to prescribe? Select all that apply.1. Administer oral spironolactone.2. Monitor for and report dry mouth, thirst, and lethargy.3. Avoid or limit potassium-rich foods.4. Glucocorticoid replacement therapy.5. Instruct patient to report gynecomastia or erectile dysfunction.6. Acetaminophen for headaches.521Answer Key1. Ans: 3 The patient's signs and symptoms indicate possible adrenal crisis(Addisonian crisis), or acute adrenocortical insufficiency, a life-threateningevent in which the need for cortisol and aldosterone is greater than theavailable supply. It often occurs in response to a stressful event (e.g., surgery,trauma, severe infection), especially when the adrenal hormone output isalready reduced. The other actions are important and will likely beimplemented rapidly because a common cause of acute adrenal glandhypofunction is hemorrhage, but the first priority is that the HCP must benotified immediately. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 1 The patient is hypotensive and most likely hypovolemic. Because thepatient already has an IV line, the IV fluids should be started first to addressthe primary problem. The second IV line and typing and cross matching needto be accomplished rapidly, and the blood sample may be drawn at the sametime that the second IV line is inserted. The patient needs cortisolreplacement, but with nausea and vomiting present, the oral route is not thebest option and an IV form of the drug should be considered. Focus:Prioritization, Delegation; Test Taking Tip: A question like this asks thenurse to prioritize what action must be taken first. To best answer, considerwhat is most life threatening to the patient. In this case, the threat is severehypovolemia and severe hypotension, which can be life threatening.3. Ans: 1, 3, 5 With acute adrenal insufficiency, the nurse must be aware of threemajor areas of concern for treatment, which are hormone replacement,hyperkalemia management, and hypoglycemia management. Focus:Prioritization.4. Ans: 2, 3, 4, 6 The patient is experiencing nausea and vomiting, so oral fluidsare not appropriate at this time. The UAP can take frequent vital signmeasurements, record intake and output, weigh the patient, and assist thepatient to the bathroom. The nurse should instruct the UAP about whichvariations in vital signs must be reported. Administration of medications isappropriate to the scope of practice of licensed nurses. This could be assignedto an LPN/LVN. Focus: Delegation, Assignment, Supervision.5. Ans: 2 Interpreting lab values, preparing care plans, and administering IVdrugs are within the scope of practice for the professional RN. In some states,an LPN/LVN may administer some IV drugs with additional training(although administration of IV drugs to unstable patients is best done by RNstaff who have education and scope of practice to evaluate patient response).Be sure to check the scope of practice in your state and at your facility.Changing a simple dressing is within the scope of practice for an LPN/LVN,although the RN would want to be sure to assess the wound site. Focus:Assignment, Supervision.5226. Ans: 1 The manifestations the patient has developed are classic signs ofhypoglycemia, a complication of adrenal gland hypofunction. The nurseshould check the patient's glucose level first. If it is low, the patient shouldreceive some form of glucose, most likely dextrose 50% IV. Focus:Prioritization.7. Ans: 4 A patient with hypercortisolism (Cushing disease) isimmunosuppressed because excess cortisol reduces the number of circulatinglymphocytes and inhibits production of cytokines and inflammatorychemicals such as histamine. These patients are at greater risk for infection.Therefore, it is essential that the nurse be told about any temperatureelevation with this patient. Focus: Prioritization, Supervision, Delegation;Test Taking Tip: To answer a question such as this one, the nurse needs tounderstand basic pathophysiology and then apply that knowledge to thepatient situation. In this case, the patient is immunosuppressed and is at riskfor infection, so the nurse would be extra alert for any signs of infection.8. Ans: 1 Women with hypercortisolism (Cushing disease) may report a historyof early cessation of menses. Increased androgen production can interrupt thenormal hormone feedback mechanism for the ovary, which decreases theproduction of estrogens and progesterone and results in oligomenorrhea(scant or infrequent menses). Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 6 A patient with Cushing disease typically has paperlike thin skinand weight gain as a result of an increase in total body fat caused by slowturnover of plasma fatty acids. Weight loss is to be expected in a patient withhypocortisolism (e.g., Addison disease). The other findings are typical of apatient with Cushing disease. Focus: Supervision, Prioritization.10. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 5 A patient with Cushing disease (hypercortisolism) would havelab values that include increased serum, salivary, and urinary cortisol levels.Other lab value expectations include increased blood glucose level, decreasedlymphocyte count, increased serum sodium, and decreased serum calcium. Ina 24-hour urine collection, there would also be increased levels of cortisol andandrogens. Focus: Prioritization.11. Ans: 3, 4, 6 The educational preparation of the LPN/LVN includesfingerstick glucose monitoring and administering oral and subcutaneousmedications. Assessing cardiac rhythms and reviewing laboratory resultsrequire additional education and skill and are appropriate to the RN's scopeof practice. Focus: Assignment, Supervision.12. Ans: 1, 3, 5 The UAP can provide articles for self-care (e.g., toothbrushes,tissues, small trash bags) and reinforce what the RN has already taught thepatient. The UAP can also remind the patient about changing positions oncethe nurse has instructed the patient to do this. Instructing and assessing arewithin the scope of practice of the professional nurse. Focus: Delegation,Supervision.13. Ans: 3 Fluid retention may not be visible. Rapid weight gain is the best523indicator of fluid retention. The best and most accurate way to detect fluidretention is to weigh the patient on a daily basis. Weigh the patient at thesame time daily (before breakfast) using the same scale. Have the patientwear the same type of clothing for each weight check. Focus: Prioritization,Supervision, Delegation.14. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 Cortisol replacement drugs should be taken with meals orsnacks because the patient can develop gastrointestinal irritation when thedrugs (e.g., cortisone, hydrocortisone, prednisone, fludrocortisone) are takenon an empty stomach. All of the other teaching points are appropriate. Focus:Prioritization.15. Ans: 1 When a patient with possible pheochromocytoma is assessed, theabdomen should not be palpated because this action could cause a suddenrelease of catecholamines and severe hypertension. None of the otherassessments should have an adverse effect on this patient. Focus:Prioritization.16. Ans: 3 During the 3- to 4-day VMA testing period, medications usuallywithheld include aspirin and antihypertensive agents. Beta-blockers areavoided because these drugs may cause a rebound rise in blood pressure. Allof the other instructions are appropriate for this diagnostic test. Focus:Delegation, Supervision.17. Ans: 2 The UAP should remind the patient about elements of the careregimen that the nurse has already taught the patient. Assessing, instructing,and identifying stressful situations that may trigger a hypertensive crisisrequire additional education and skill appropriate to the scope of practice ofthe professional RN. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.18. Ans: 1, 4, 6 The new graduate RN who has just completed orientation shouldbe assigned patients whose conditions are relatively stable and not complex.The new graduate should be familiar with the adrenal surgery aftercompleting her orientation and should be able to provide any teaching thepatient needs. The patient with a low potassium level will need some form ofpotassium supplementation, which the new nurse should be able toadminister. The patient who was admitted 2 days ago to rule outhyperaldosteronism would be stable and not in need of complex nursingcare. Patients with significant changes would benefit from care byexperienced RNs. The patient in Addisonian crisis and the fearful, anxiouspatient would also benefit from being cared for by an experienced nurse. Thenewly admitted patient may have many questions and would also benefitfrom care with and experienced RN. Focus: Assignment.19. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 When surgery for hyperaldosteronism (adrenalectomy)cannot be performed, spironolactone (a potassium-sparing diuretic) therapyis continued to control hypokalemia and hypertension. Patients are advisedto avoid potassium supplements and foods rich in potassium. Hyponatremiacan occur with spironolactone therapy, and the nurse should monitor for and524report manifestations such as dry mouth, thirst, lethargy, and drowsiness.Headaches are a common manifestation of hyperaldosteronism, soacetaminophen may be prescribed as a treatment. Side effects ofspironolactone should also be taught to the patient. Examples includegynecomastia and erectile dysfunction, as well as diarrhea, hives, hirsutism,and amenorrhea. Focus: Prioritization.525C A S E S T U D Y 9526Multiple Clients WithGastrointestinal Problems527QuestionsAn RN is the leader of a team caring for clients with gastrointestinal (GI) disorders ona medical-surgical unit. The team includes a newly graduated RN who has recentlycompleted hospital orientation, an experienced unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP),and a nursing student. The following information about the six assigned clients isincluded in the hand-off report. (Note to student: Use the information from the handoffreport to make brief notes about these six clients and refer to the notes as you workthrough the case study. This gives you practice in identifying important informationand simulates how you would use the notes to remember and keep track of six clientsover the course of a shift.)• Ms. H, a 42-year-old woman, has right upper quadrant pain that radiates to the rightshoulder. She has a history of gallstones. She was admitted through the emergencydepartment last night with acute cholecystitis. The night shift nurse reports, “Shehad a good night.”• Ms. D, a 60-year-old woman, was admitted with vomiting and pain in themidabdomen related to a bowel obstruction. She reports abdominal pain that hasgradually improved since the insertion of a nasogastric (NG) tube. She is receiving IVfluids and is currently to have nothing by mouth (NPO).• Ms. T, a 29-year-old woman, was admitted for an acute exacerbation of ulcerativecolitis. She appears wasted and malnourished. She has severe diarrhea and reportspredefecation abdominal pain and generalized tenderness to palpation. She isreceiving total parenteral nutrition (TPN) through a central line.• Mr. A, a 26-year-old man, will be discharged in the afternoon. He is homeless andfrequently sleeps in a nearby shelter. He had discharge teaching from the enterostomaltherapist yesterday regarding his infected wound secondary to a ruptured appendix;he wants a review of the wound care instructions before he leaves.• Mr. K, an 85-year-old man, is frail but alert and oriented × 2. He was transferredfrom an extended-care facility to receive a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy(PEG) tube that was placed 5 days ago. He has a large family. They ask a lot ofquestions and argue continuously among themselves and with the staff. His vitalsigns are stable.• Mr. R, a 57-year-old man, has periumbilical pain. The pain is very severe, despitemedication, and radiates to the back. Mr. R was admitted with acute pancreatitis. Heis nothing by mouth and has an NG tube and IV line. He is belligerent and confused.The white blood cell (WBC) count and blood glucose level are increased.1. The night shift nurse has just finished giving the RN team leader a report onthe six clients. Which client has the highest acuity level and is at greatest riskfor shock during the shift?1. Ms. H (acute cholecystitis)5282. Ms. D (bowel obstruction)3. Ms. T (ulcerative colitis)4. Mr. A (appendectomy)5. Mr. K (PEG-tube)6. Mr. R (acute pancreatitis)2. Which clients would be best to assign to the new RN? Select all that apply.1. Ms. H (acute cholecystitis)2. Ms. D (bowel obstruction)3. Ms. T (ulcerative colitis)4. Mr. A (appendectomy)5. Mr. K (PEG-tube)6. Mr. R (acute pancreatitis)3. Which tasks can be delegated to the UAP? Select all that apply.1. Assisting Ms. T with perineal care after diarrheal episodes2. Measuring vital signs every 2 hours for Mr. R3. Transporting Ms. H off the unit for a procedure4. Gently cleansing the nares around Ms. D's NG tube5. Removing Mr. A's dressing6. Helping Mr. K to brush his teeth4. Which reporting tasks are appropriate to delegate to the UAP? Select all thatapply.1. Reporting on the condition of Ms. T's perineal area after application ofointment2. Reporting the quality and color of NG drainage for Ms. D3. Reporting whether Mr. R's blood pressure is below 100/60 mm Hg4. Reporting if any of the clients indicate pain5. Reporting if Mr. A is seen leaving the unit to smoke a cigarette6. Reporting that Mr. K's family has questions5. The night nurse gives a brief and incomplete report. Which question shouldthe oncoming RN team leader pose to the night shift nurse to help determinethe priority actions for Ms. H who was admitted for acute cholecystitis?1. “What are her vital signs?”2. “Is she going to surgery or radiology this morning?”3. “Is she still having pain?”4. “Does she need any morning medications?”6. The health care provider (HCP) told Ms. H (acute cholecystitis) that shewould probably need a laparoscopic cholecystectomy; however, thehepatobiliary iminodiacetic acid (HIDA) scan and laboratory results are still529pending. Ms. H asks, “What should I expect?” What is the best interventionat this point?1. Describe the surgical procedure.2. Call the HCP to come and speak with her.3. Provide some written material about gallbladder disease and options.4. Explain general postoperative care, such as coughing and deep breathingexercises.7. Ms. H's (acute cholecystitis) HIDA scan shows a decreased bile flow withgallbladder disease and obstruction. Because of the obstruction, the nurse isvigilant for the complication of biliary colic. What are the key signs andsymptoms that the nurse will watch for?1. Rebound tenderness and a sausage-shaped mass in the right upperquadrant2. Flatulence, dyspepsia, and eructation after eating or drinking3. Right upper quadrant abdominal pain that radiates to the right shoulder orscapula4. Severe abdominal pain with tachycardia, pallor, diaphoresis, andprostration8. All of these clients must receive their routine morning medications. Whichclient should receive his or her medication last?1. Ms. H (acute cholecystitis)2. Ms. D (bowel obstruction)3. Ms. T (ulcerative colitis)4. Mr. K (PEG-tube)9. The RN is observing the nursing student perform an abdominal assessmenton Ms. D, who was admitted for a bowel obstruction. For which actions willthe supervising nurse intervene? Select all that apply.1. Palpating for abdominal distention with the index fingertip2. Auscultating for bowel sounds with the NG tube attached to low wallsuction3. Performing the physical assessment before asking about pain4. Checking the NG collection canister for quantity and quality of drainage5. Inspecting for visible signs of peristaltic waves or abdominal distention6. Checking for skin turgor over the lower abdominal area10. The RN is supervising the nursing student in administering Ms. D's (bowelobstruction) medications through the NG tube. When would the nurseintervene?1. The student compares medication administration record with the originalprescription.2. The student draws up 30 mL of sterile water for flush in a large-bore530syringe.3. The student performs three checks of the medication names and dosages.4. The student crushes tablets and puts all medications in the same cup.11. The new RN asks the team leader if it is okay to give Ms. D (bowelobstruction) a dose of psyllium using the HCP's standing orders. Ms. D says,“She feels constipated and takes psyllium on a regular basis at home.” Whatis team leader's best response?1. “Call the HCP to see if the standing orders apply to Ms. D”2. “Give the psyllium according to the standing orders.”3. “Laxatives can cause perforation if there is a bowel obstruction.”4. “The client can’t be constipated because she is NPO.”12. Ms. D (bowel obstruction) reports feeling weak. She seems more confusedcompared with her baseline. The NG drainage container has a large amountof watery bile-colored fluid. Which laboratory values should be checkedfirst?1. Blood urea nitrogen and creatinine levels2. Platelet count and WBC count3. Sodium level, potassium level, and pH of blood4. Bilirubin level, hematocrit, and hemoglobin level13. Ms. T is discouraged and dispirited about her ulcerative colitis. She isresistant to TPN because “I’m being kept alive with tubes.” Whichexplanation will encourage Ms. T to continue with the TPN therapy?1. “It will help you regain your weight.”2. “It will create a positive nitrogen balance.”3. “Your health care provider has ordered this important therapy for you.”4. “Your bowel can rest, and the diarrhea will decrease.”14. The nurse is reviewing the medication administration record for Ms. T(ulcerative colitis). Which situation needs immediate investigation?1. Two tablets of senna were given yesterday morning.2. One dose of atropine sulfate was given yesterday morning.3. IV infusion of infliximab 5 mg/kg was given last evening.4. IV hydrocortisone 100 mg was given last evening.15. Ms. T is receiving an oral dose of sulfasalazine 500 mg every 6 hours fortreatment of ulcerative colitis. Which assessment finding is cause for greatestconcern?1. Decreased appetite2. Nausea and vomiting3. Decreased urine output4. Headache53116. The UAP asks, “Why can’t Ms. T (ulcerative colitis) get out of bed and dothings for herself? She's only 29 years old.” What is the team leader's bestresponse?1. “The HCP ordered bed rest for a few days.”2. “Decreasing activity helps to decrease the diarrhea.”3. “I see you’re frustrated; just do your best to help.”4. “She is too depressed to get out of bed.”17. Because of Ms. T's (ulcerative colitis) severe diarrhea, the nurse is reviewingthe laboratory results. Which laboratory results are cause for greatestconcern?1. The WBC count is slightly increased.2. The hemoglobin and hematocrit are slightly decreased.3. The erythrocyte sedimentation (ESR) rate is increased.4. The serum sodium and potassium levels are decreased.18. While the nurse is teaching Mr. A about dressing changes for hisappendectomy wound, he says, “When you live on the street, you can’t doeverything the way you nurses do in the hospital.” What is the mostimportant thing to emphasize in helping him to accomplish self-care?1. “Change the dressing in the am and the pm.”2. “Use the gauze package to make a sterile field.”3. “Wash your hands before a dressing change.”4. “Discard any opened packages of unused gauze.”19. Psychosocial assessment reveals that Mr. A (appendectomy) faces severalfinancial and personal problems. Which finding has the most impact ondischarge teaching for wound care and other follow-up issues?1. He is homeless and has no family in the city.2. He has no money for the prescribed medications.3. He has no transportation to the follow-up appointment.4. He cannot read or write very well.20. Mr. A (appendectomy) will be discharged with prescriptions for painmedication and an antibiotic. What is the most important point that the nursewill emphasize about the medications?1. “Take the pain medication before the pain becomes severe.”2. “The pain medication may make you feel drowsy or sleepy.”3. “All of the antibiotics should be taken, even if you feel good.”4. “The antibiotics should not be shared with any other person.”21. To provide good continuity of care for Mr. A (appendectomy), who ishomeless, which members of the interdisciplinary team should routinelyhave access to Mr. A's medical records? Select all that apply.5321. Hospital social worker who is helping Mr. A to locate resources2. Surgeon who performed Mr. A's appendectomy3. An epidemiologist who is collecting data on the homeless4. All of the UAPs who work in the medical-surgical area5. Administrator of the shelter where Mr. A frequently stays6. Nurse who works at the shelter where Mr. A frequently stays22. The RN is teaching the nursing student about enteral feedings for clientssuch as Mr. K, who has a PEG tube. In the postoperative period, when canenteral feedings be started?1. Within 6 to 8 hours after the procedure2. When bowel sounds occur, usually within 24 hours3. When the client reports feeling hungry4. On a schedule determined by the pharmacy23. Mr. K (PEG tube) needs 1200 kcal/day. The enteral feeding formula provides1 kcal/mL. Yesterday's formula feedings were 100 mL at 7:00 am, 50 mL at11:00 am, 200 mL at 3:00 pm, and 100 mL at 7:00 pm. What should the nurse dofirst?1. Give additional feedings to catch up on nutritional needs.2. Look at the original prescription to determine frequency and amount.3. Look at weight trends to see if client is losing or maintaining weight.4. Call the nurse who cared for Mr. K yesterday and asked what happened.24. Because of Mr. K's (PEG tube) advanced age, which complications of enteralfeedings may occur? Select all that apply.1. Hyperglycemia2. Hypotension3. Aspiration4. Diarrhea5. Fluid overload6. Weight loss25. In the care of Mr. K (PEG tube), which health care team members aredemonstrating the roles and responsibilities that support interprofessionalcollaboration? Select all that apply.1. The UAP tells Mr. K's family that she will be in at 10:00 am to assist Mr. Kwith hygiene.2. The RN gives the UAP specific instructions about how to clean around Mr.K's PEG tube.3. The RN acknowledges that the UAP has the best working relationship withMr. K's daughter.4. The enterostomal therapist performs care for Mr. K, but staff and family are533unsure about follow-up.5. The nursing student recognizes that dealing with Mr. K's family dynamicsexceeds her abilities.6. The surgeon does mini-grand rounds with nursing student to explain thepurpose of Mr. K's PEG tube.26. For Mr. K (PEG tube), several new medications and a change in the enteralfeeding solution are included in the discharge plan. Which team member isthe nurse most likely to consult before teaching the client and family aboutthese new medications and enteral solution?1. Nutritionist to verify that the calories and other nutrients are sufficient2. Home health nurse to verify that follow-up teaching will be performed3. Social worker to verify that medications and formula are covered byinsurance4. Pharmacist to verify that medications are compatible with the feedingsolution27. What instructions will the nurse give to the UAP about how to repositionMr. R to relieve discomfort related to acute pancreatitis?1. Place him in a high Fowler position.2. Help him to lie in a side-lying “fetal” position.3. Lay the bed flat and put the client's legs on a pillow.4. Help him to sit on edge of bed and dangle his legs.28. Mr. R (acute pancreatitis) demonstrates a dry cough. He reports left-sidedchest pain when breathing deeply and shortness of breath. He also has a lowgradefever. Which potential complication does the nurse suspect?1. Hypovolemic shock2. Pleural effusion3. Paralytic ileus4. Acute respiratory distress syndrome29. The nurse notes that Mr. R (acute pancreatitis) has a small amount of bloodoozing from the IV insertion site, and there is a palm-shaped bruise on hisanterior lateral humerus. What action should the nurse take first?1. Remove the IV line and restart it at different site.2. Remind the UAP to handle Mr. R very gently.3. Assess for other signs of obvious or occult bleeding.4. Obtain an order for coagulation studies.30. What information regarding Mr. R (acute pancreatitis) is appropriate toreport to the HCP? Select all that apply.1. Hematocrit is decreased by more than 10%.2. Calcium level is less than 9 mg/dL (2.25 mmol/L).5343. Partial oxygen pressure (Po2) is less than 60 mm Hg.4. Pain is unrelieved by medication.5. Blood type is O positive.6. NG tube and IV line are intact.31. The HCP has been paged and is en route to see Mr. R for complicationsrelated to acute pancreatitis. The client is increasingly agitated and confused.He pulls out his IV line and NG tube and removes the oxygen nasal cannula.His skin is pale and clammy. His pulse rate is 140 beats/min, and his bloodpressure is 140/60 mm Hg. List the following steps, in order of priority, incaring for Mr. R with 1 being the first and 6 being the last.1. Restart the IV line.2. Stay with the client and call for assistance.3. Replace the nasal cannula for supplemental oxygen.4. Have a colleague gather IV supplies, glucometer, pulse oximeter, andnonrebreather mask.5. Check the blood glucose level.6. Delegate UAP to take vital signs every 15 minutes.____, ____, ____, ____, ____, ____, ____32. The HCP arrives while the RN team leader is caring for Mr. R. Because ofMr. R's deteriorating status (refer to questions 28 and 31), the team leaderwould advocate for which intervention?1. Perform additional laboratory tests and continue monitoring.2. Prepare Mr. R for emergency surgery.3. Prepare Mr. R for transfer to the intensive care unit (ICU).4. Reestablish NG suction and apply restraints or use one-on-one observation.33. Toward the end of the shift, the team leader finds the new RN in thebathroom crying. The new nurse says, “I’m a terrible nurse. I’m sodisorganized, and I’m so far behind. I’m going to quit. I hate this job.” Whatis the best thing to do?1. Have her take a short break off the unit.2. Offer to take one of her clients.3. Ask the UAP to help her.4. Calm her down and help her prioritize.535Answer Key1. Ans: 6 Mr. R has several prognostic factors that increase the risk for death:age older than 50 years and increased WBC count and an elevated bloodglucose level. Shock can occur secondary to bleeding; release of kinins, whichcauses vasodilation; or release of enzymes into the circulation. He is also atrisk for infection and sepsis. Respiratory complications of pancreatitis includepneumonia, atelectasis, pleural effusions, and acute respiratory distresssyndrome. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: This question simulates theinformation filtering and subsequent decision making that nurses use whilelistening to the hand-off report. Use the airway, breathing, circulation (ABCs)and determine which clients are at risk for respiratory distress orhemorrhage.2. Ans: 1, 2, 4 Ms. H, Ms. D, and Mr. A are in the most stable condition andrepresent the least complex cases according to the shift report. Mr. R'sconfusion and belligerence will make pain management especially difficult.Laboratory results and potential complications must be closely monitored.Ms. T is at risk for electrolyte imbalances, especially hypokalemia. She needsrepetitive perineal hygiene and skin assessment. TPN and central linemanagement require additional skills. Mr. K is in stable condition, butbecause of the family dynamics, his care should be handled by anexperienced nurse. Focus: Assignment.3. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 Measuring vital signs, performing hygienic care, andtransporting (stable clients) are within the scope of the UAP's duties. TheUAP should not remove the dressing. If the dressing needs to be removed,the nurse should remove it, conduct the wound assessment, clean the area,and redress as needed. Focus: Delegation.4. Ans: 3, 4, 5, 6 The UAP can report on changes in vital sign values; givingparameters for notification is better than asking for general reports on anychanges. The UAP can report that a client is having pain but is not expectedto assess that pain. The UAP can report that the family has questions butshould not be expected to answer questions about the client's care. All staffshould be aware of when registered clients come and go on the unit andshould keep each other advised. (Note: Clients should also be encouraged totell someone if they are going off the unit.) Judging response to treatment andevaluating drainage are responsibilities of the RN. Focus: Delegation.5. Ans: 2 When the shift report is incomplete, the nurse can ask for any type ofadditional information. However, morning surgery or procedures impact theimmediate plan of care for the individual client and the organization of carefor other assigned clients. HCPs frequently communicate verbally to thenursing staff, but the written notes may be pending, especially if it is anemergency admission or if the HCP is trying to complete rounds or doprocedures. Vital sign values and the need for medications can be obtained536from the records if the off-going nurse neglects to give that information. Acurrent pain report can and should be obtained directly from the client.Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 3 Giving written information about gallbladder disease and options willhelp Ms. H to prepare any questions she might have for the HCP. Ifdiagnostic results are pending, calling the HCP is premature. Describing thesurgical procedure is inappropriate because there is more than one type ofprocedure, and the one to be used is still undetermined. Explainingpostoperative care would be appropriate after the need for cholecystectomyhas been verified by the HCP. Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 4 Severe pain with tachycardia, pallor, diaphoresis, and prostration(exhaustion) are signs and symptoms of severe biliary colic. This is a medicalemergency. Keep the client flat and notify the Rapid Response Team becauseof the potential for shock. Rebound tenderness and a sausage-shaped mass inthe right upper quadrant suggest peritoneal inflammation. Flatulence (gas),dyspepsia (indigestion), and eructation (belching) after eating are commonlyreported by clients when they first seek help for gallbladder problems. Rightupper quadrant pain that radiates to the right shoulder or scapula is reportedby some clients in their descriptions of pain patterns. Focus: Prioritization.8. Ans: 4 In the provision of routine care and when all clients are stable, clientswho need extra time should be left until last so that care for others is notdelayed. Mr. K will require more time and assistance because of age andweakness. Also, his medications must be crushed and administered via PEGtube, which is more time consuming. Dealing with Mr. K's family is alsomore time consuming. Older adult clients and their families typically benefitfrom and appreciate caregivers who do not act rushed or hurried. Focus:Prioritization.9. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 6 The flat palmar surface of the hand is better than the fingertipswhen palpating for distention. If the wall suction is activated, it will interferewith auscultating for bowel sounds. Asking about pain first will guide thephysical assessment steps. The skin on the anterior chest under the clavicle isa better place to check for turgor than the lower abdomen, especially ifabdominal distention is present. Checking the drainage and inspecting forperistaltic waves or distention are correct actions. Focus: Supervision.10. Ans: 4 Medications should be given separately because of increased risk forphysical and chemical incompatibilities, increased chance of clogging thetube, and altered therapeutic response. The other actions are correct. Focus:Supervision.11. Ans: 3 Laxatives should not be used for clients with bowel obstructions orfecal impactions because increased peristaltic action can cause rupture andperforation. Assessment for return of bowel function (e.g., passing flatus,hearing bowel sounds) should be performed, and evidence of function shouldbe pointed out to the client. The client should be told that being nothing by537mouth will decrease fecal mass and that eventual return of function andnormalization of bowel pattern are the therapeutic goals. Focus: Supervision.12. Ans: 3 With continuous NG suction, there is a loss of sodium and potassium.Also, the loss of acid via suctioning will result in an increase in blood pH ormetabolic alkalosis. Full assessment of laboratory data is always importantwhen a change in status is noted, but the other values are less relevant to thisclient's NG therapy. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 4 Stopping the diarrhea is a priority for Ms. T. Chronic, frequentdiarrhea is demoralizing, and fluid and electrolyte losses cause weakness. Ifthe bowel is allowed to rest, the cramping will stop. The other options alsoprovide accurate information, but the potential resolution of the mostdisturbing symptom will encourage her to continue. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 1 Generally, laxatives should not be given to clients with ulcerativecolitis. In Ms. T's situation, controlling her diarrhea is one of the maintreatment goals. Senna is a stimulant laxative and will increase peristalsis andcramping. Atropine sulfate is an antidiarrheal medication. Antidiarrhealmedication can be used for symptomatic relief, but caution is necessarybecause of the potential for colon dilation or toxic megacolon. Infliximab andhydrocortisone (and sulfasalazine) can be used for clients with ulcerativecolitis to reduce the inflammation. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 3 Sulfasalazine is potentially nephrotoxic. The other adverse effects arealso possible but are less serious. Focus: Prioritization.16. Ans: 2 Explaining the physiologic reason helps the UAP to understand thatrest is part of the therapy. Following the HCP's orders is important, but it isan inadequate explanation. Acknowledging frustration is appropriate, but ageneralized platitude, such as “do your best,” does not help the UAPunderstand the goals of therapy. Depression is not an indication for bed rest.Focus: Supervision.17. Ans: 4 The low potassium level is the greatest concern because of thepotential for cardiac dysthymias. Sodium is also lost during diarrheaepisodes. The WBC count, C-reactive protein, and ESR rate are likely to beincreased because of the inflammatory process of the disease. Lowhemoglobin and hematocrit can occur because of ulceration and irritation ofthe intestinal mucosa. Focus: Prioritization.18. Ans: 3 Washing the hands is the first basic step for dressing change. HelpingMr. A identify other ways to maintain asepsis would be more useful thanstressing strict sterile technique. Changing the dressing in the morning andthe evening maybe ideal, but this type of dressing change can be done at anytime. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: From fundamentals, recall thathand hygiene is the single most important action to prevent infection.19. Ans: 1 Because Mr. A is homeless, he will need instructions for adapting thedressing change procedures because of inconsistent access to hot water, soap,and adequate bathroom facilities. The social worker can be contacted for538assistance with financial issues related to medication or transportation.Simplify written material and verbally reinforce it or instruct Mr. A to have afriend read the information to him. Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 3 All of the teaching points are important; however, Mr. A had aruptured appendicitis, and it is essential that he complete the antibioticprescription so that the infection will completely resolve. Recurrent infectionscan be more difficult to treat because the organisms will develop a resistance.Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: To prevent the development of drugresistantstrains of microbes, clients should always be instructed to completea prescription of antibiotics.21. Ans: 1, 2, 6 Health care staff who provide direct care for the client haveroutine access to a client's medical records. An epidemiologist could accessrecords to gather data at the aggregate level, but this would require specialpermission. Only the UAPs who assist in the care of the client would haveaccess to records, and UAP access may be restricted to flow sheets, forrecording vital signs, intake and output, and so on. Administrator of theshelter might be advised, about a client's condition, but the information islikely to come from the nurse or HCP who oversees client care at the shelter.Focus: Prioritization, Knowledge.22. Ans: 2 Bowel sounds should resume in 24 hours; this signals GI systemreadiness. The client's subjective reports of hunger (or lack of hunger) shouldnot dictate initiation of feedings. The pharmacy may label the formulaaccording to the HCP prescription but will not determine the feedingschedule. Focus: Prioritization.23. Ans: 2 First the nurse would look at the original prescription. If theprescribed amount seems insufficient, the nurse could contact the HCP andthe nutritionist to have the feeding changed. If the prescribed orders were notfollowed, the charge nurse should be notified to follow up with all nurseswho are caring for Mr. K to prevent reoccurrence. Looking at weight trends ispart of the routine assessment for clients with feeding tubes and those at riskfor nutritional problems. Mr. K only received 450 kcal yesterday, but trying tocatch up by overfeeding may cause distention, vomiting, fluid overload, orelectrolyte imbalances. Focus: Prioritization.24. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 5 Older adult clients are especially at risk for hyperglycemia,aspiration, diarrhea, and fluid overload. Hypotension and weight loss shouldnot occur because of enteral feedings. Focus: Prioritization, Knowledge.25. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 The UAP informs the family. The RN gives specificinstructions. The RN acknowledges strengths of a team member. Nursingstudent recognizes her own limitations. The surgeon enhances the student'slearning. These team members have filled their roles and responsibilitiestoward interprofessional collaboration. The enterostomal therapist performs atask but fails to communicate to other team members what is needed forfollow-up care. Focus: Supervision, Knowledge.53926. Ans: 4 In this circumstance, the nurse is most likely to consult thepharmacist to see if there are any incompatibilities. The nurse is less likely toconsult the other team members at this time unless there are specific issuesrelated to insufficient nutrition, a problem with home health care, orinadequate insurance coverage. Focus: Prioritization.27. Ans: 2 For clients with pancreatitis, the fetal position or sitting up andholding the knees to the chest will open the retroperitoneal space, whichhelps to decrease discomfort. For Mr. R, having him lie down is preferable tohaving him sit because of his mental status and condition. Focus:Supervision, Delegation.28. Ans: 2 A dry cough, left-sided chest pain when breathing deeply, shortnessof breath, and low-grade fever are signs and symptoms of pleural effusion.Clients with acute pancreatitis can develop many complications: pancreaticinfection that can lead to septic shock, hemorrhage secondary to necrotizinghemorrhagic pancreatitis, acute kidney failure, paralytic ileus, hypovolemicshock, pleural effusion, acute respiratory distress syndrome, atelectasis,pneumonia, multiorgan system failure, disseminated intravascularcoagulation, and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Focus: Prioritization.29. Ans: 3 First, the nurse would assess for additional evidence of bleeding.Findings would be immediately reported to the HCP, because clients withacute pancreatitis have an increased risk for coagulation disorders, such asdisseminated intravascular coagulation. Restarting the IV line at a differentsite will not alleviate the problem. If there is a coagulation disorder, the newinsertion site will also bleed. It would be appropriate to initiate interventionsfor bleeding precautions, such as gentle handling. The nurse anticipates thatthe HCP will want coagulation studies after assessment findings are reported.Focus: Prioritization.30. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 4 The low calcium level and the falling hematocrit and Po2, incombination with the elevated WBC count and his age, are indicators of ahigh mortality risk. High level of pain is not a prognostic factor, but severeunrelieved pain should always be reported. Blood type will not affect theHCP's decisions about therapy. Reporting on the NG tube and IV line wouldbe appropriate for hand-over report, but information about equipment is notreported to the HCP unless there is a specific problem that requires an orderor a change of therapy. Focus: Prioritization.31. Ans: 2, 3, 4, 1, 5, 6 Stay with the client, but call for assistance; reestablishoxygen per nasal cannula, and have a colleague gather equipment. (Note:Check oxygen saturation with nasal cannula in place and replace withnonrebreather mask as needed.) Restart the IV infusion so that emergencyfluids or drugs can be given. Check the blood glucose level to rule out ahypoglycemic reaction. Continuously monitor vital signs. If at all possible,reinsert the NG tube; however, this is not a lifesaving priority. Focus:Prioritization.54032. Ans: 3 Mr. R has severe life-threatening problems that warrant intensivecare. The HCP is responsible for the decision to transfer Mr. R; however, thenurse must recognize and advocate for clients who are decompensating.Ordering laboratory and other diagnostic testing may be needed, andrestraints or one-on-one observation could be suggested to preventdislodging equipment, but ultimately, the client should be transferred to theICU. Surgery is unlikely until aggressive medical management measures areexhausted. Focus: Prioritization.33. Ans: 4 Helping her to prioritize will build skill and confidence. She feelsupset, but she has not made any errors that have compromised client care(the team leader would point this out to her). Sending her off the unit furtherdelays care, leaves her without support, and hinders opportunities toproblem solve. Asking the UAP to help her or helping her with select tasks isthe second-best choice because it demonstrates team support. Taking overone of her clients is not necessary unless care and safety are compromised.Focus: Supervision.541C A S E S T U D Y 1 0542Multiple Patients With Pain543QuestionsThe RN is the leader of a team caring for patients on a medical-surgical unit. The teamincludes a newly graduated RN who has recently completed hospital orientation and anunlicensed assistive personnel (UAP). The night shift nurse gives the following reporton the six patients that are assigned: (Note to student: Use the information from thehand-off report to make brief notes about these six patients and refer to the notes as youwork through the case study.)• Ms. R, a 55-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis, underwent shoulderarthroplasty 3 days ago. She reports morning stiffness in her joints. Swelling is notedin both wrists and proximal interphalangeal joints.• Mr. L, a 35-year-old man with a history of kidney stones, reports intermittent severeback and right-sided flank pain (rating of 3 to 8 on a scale of 10). He has had episodicnausea and vomiting. He is urinating but has hematuria and dysuria. Mr. L wasadmitted through the emergency department (ED) at 10:00 pm. He is using a patientcontrolledanalgesia (PCA) pump.• Mr. O, an 18-year-old man, sustained a right tibia–fibula fracture in a motorcycleaccident 7 hours ago. He has extensive skin abrasions underneath the cast and on theright anterolateral body. Although obvious chest and abdominal trauma were ruledout in the ED, he is being monitored for occult trauma. He is receiving an analgesicvia PCA pump. Night shift nurse reports seeing the young man's motheroccasionally pushing the PCA pump button.• Mr. H, a 28-year-old man, is currently in the operating room (OR) for an inguinalhernia repair. He should return from the OR later in the shift.• Ms. J, a 65-year-old woman with end-stage multiple myeloma, is receiving hospicecare. She has been on the unit for 2 weeks. Her health care provider (HCP) signed thedo-not-resuscitate order 3 days ago.• Mr. A, a 55-year-old man, has been on the unit for 3 weeks. He is receiving IVantibiotics for bacterial pneumonia. He has a history of IV drug abuse and chronicback pain and has tested positive for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.Mr. A's oxygen saturation was decreasing during the night shift.1. The team leader decides to do a brief round of all the patients after shiftreport to ensure safety and to help determine acuity and assignments. List theorder in which the team leader should briefly check in on these patients.1. Ms. R (rheumatoid arthritis)2. Mr. L (kidney stones)3. Mr. O (motorcycle accident)4. Mr. H (inguinal hernia repair)5. Ms. J (end-stage multiple myeloma)5446. Mr. A (bacterial pneumonia and HIV positive)_____, _____, _____, _____, ____, _____2. Based on the information that the nurse received during hand-off report forMr. A (who has bacterial pneumonia and is HIV positive), what is thepriority concept to consider in planning care for this patient?1. Pain2. Gas exchange3. Immunity4. Cellular regulation3. The oncoming team leader asks the night shift nurse if anyone spoke to themother about pushing the PCA button for Mr. O. The night nurse states, “Themother is just concerned about her son and wants him to have pain relief.Besides, the prescribed dose is controlled by the pump.” What is the teamleader's best action?1. Report the night nurse to the unit manager for failure to safeguard thepatient.2. Explain the purpose and function of the PCA delivery system to themother.3. Give the night nurse written information about the dangers of possibleoverdose.4. First talk to the night nurse about the PCA procedure; then talk to themother.4. Which of the six patients can be assigned to the new RN? Select all thatapply.1. Ms. R (rheumatoid arthritis)2. Mr. L (kidney stones)3. Mr. O (motorcycle accident)4. Mr. H (inguinal hernia repair)5. Ms. J (end-stage multiple myeloma)6. Mr. A (bacterial pneumonia and HIV positive)5. Which morning tasks can be delegated to the UAP? Select all that apply.1. Assisting Ms. R, who has rheumatoid arthritis, with morning care2. Reinforcing to Mr. L, who has a kidney stone, the need to save urine forstraining3. Preparing Mr. H's room for his return from the OR for hernia repair4. Reporting on the condition of Mr. O's skin resulting from his motorcycleaccident5. Getting coffee for Ms. J's (end-stage multiple myeloma) family6. Checking on the pulse oximeter reading for Mr. A, who has bacterialpneumonia5456. The team leader is talking to Ms. R (rheumatoid arthritis) about dischargeplans and follow-up appointments. She begins to cry and says, “I was soactive and athletic when I was younger.” What is the most therapeuticresponse?1. “Your shoulder will get progressively better with time and patience. Don’tcry.”2. “I can see that you are really upset. Is your shoulder hurting a lot rightnow?”3. “I know what you mean. I used to be able to do a lot more when I wasyounger, too.”4. “It is difficult to deal with changes. What types of activities did you used todo?”7. Ms. R (rheumatoid arthritis) tells the nurse, “I really dread doing thepostoperative exercises.” She seems fearful and grimaces when the nursesuggests that pain medication can be given before the exercises begin. Whichmember of the health care team would the nurse consult first?1. Psychiatric clinical nurse specialist to evaluate fears2. Occupational therapy to review the exercise therapy3. Pharmacist to verify efficacy of prescribed pain medication4. Surgeon to review the expected progress of healing8. Which nonpharmacologic pain measure to help Ms. R (rheumatoid arthritis)relieve her early morning stiffness should be delegated to the UAP?1. Assisting Ms. R to get in a bathtub full of warm water2. Sharing some relaxation techniques with Ms. R3. Assisting Ms. R to take a warm shower4. Evaluating the effectiveness of paraffin therapy9. For Ms. R (rheumatoid arthritis), which discharge topic is the most importantto emphasize to prevent a major postsurgical complication?1. Activity and movement limitations for the affected shoulder2. Continuation of pain medication as prescribed3. Possibility of repeat surgery for ongoing disease changes4. Expected postsurgical symptoms, such as localized pain10. Based on the information that the nurse received during hand-off report forMr. L (kidney stone), what is the priority concept to consider in planninginterventions for this patient?1. Elimination2. Pain3. Fluid balance4. Infection11. The new nurse tells the team leader that she cannot find any documentation546that shows the time of Mr. L's (kidney stone) last dose of pain medication.What action should occur first?1. Help the new nurse look at the chart and medication administration record.2. Tell the new nurse to ask the night nurse before she leaves.3. Speak to the night shift nurse about the documentation.4. Have the new nurse ask Mr. L when he last had medication.12. Which tasks related to pain management can be delegated to the UAP?Select all that apply.1. Reporting on grimacing seen in unresponsive patients2. Asking about the location, quality, and radiation of pain3. Reminding patients to report pain as necessary4. Observing for relief after medication is given5. Asking patients directly, “Are you having pain?”6. Determining if position change relieves pain13. During the shift, the following events occur at the same time. Prioritize theorder for addressing these problems.1. Mr. L is calling out loudly about right-sided flank pain caused by hiskidney stone.2. Mr. O, who was in a motorcycle accident, is calling, “The pump tippedover, and it's broken.”3. Another nurse needs opioid wastage witnessed.4. Mr. A, with bacterial pneumonia, is urinating in the corner of his room._____, _____, _____, _____14. Mr. L (kidney stone) calls for pain medication. He describes the pain causedby his kidney stone as excruciating. He is crying, diaphoretic, and pacingaround the room. What is the priority action?1. Instruct Mr. L to do deep breathing exercises.2. Remind Mr. L to use the PCA pump when he has pain.3. Give Mr. L an as needed (PRN) IV bolus dose as ordered.4. Call the HCP immediately to report pain and other symptoms.15. The team leader is preparing to give Mr. L (kidney stone) pain medication,but the IV site is infiltrated, so the nurse informs him that the IV catheter willhave to be reinserted. He yells, “What's wrong with you people?! Can’t youdo anything right?!” What is the best response?1. “Let me call the HCP, and I can get an order for an oral medication.”2. “This is not my fault, but if you will just give me a couple of minutes, I canfix it.”3. “Let me call the nursing supervisor, and you can talk to her about thesituation.”5474. “I know you are having pain. Let me restart your IV line right now.”16. Which nonpharmacologic intervention for pain management is the mostappropriate for Mr. L (kidney stone)?1. Avoid overhydration or underhydration.2. Gently massage the lower back.3. Darken the room to encourage rest and sleep.4. Apply an ice pack to the kidney area.17. Mr. L (kidney stone) reports that the pain has decreased compared withearlier, but now he is having other symptoms. Which symptom is of greatestconcern?1. Painless hematuria with small clots2. Dull pain that radiates into the genitalia3. Absence of pain but scant urine output4. Sensation of urinary urgency18. For Mr. O, in addition to pain medication, which action will help the most torelieve pain associated with the tibia–fibula fracture caused by his motorcycleaccident?1. Instruct him to periodically move his toes.2. Use diversional therapy.3. Elevate the injured leg above the heart.4. Place the patient in a high Fowler position.19. The nurse reinforces teaching about the purpose and correct use of the PCAwith Mr. O (tibia–fibula fracture) and his mother. Both express anunderstanding and willingness to comply. When is the best time for Mr. O toactivate the PCA to receive a dose of pain medication?1. Whenever pain is a 5 on scale of 0 to 10, with 10 being the worst painimaginable2. 30 minutes after waking up in the morning and 30 minutes before bedtime3. As soon as the lockout time expires; if pain is still present, even if it is mild4. 10 minutes before a painful procedure such as a dressing change orphysical therapy20. Mr. O (tibia–fibula fracture) is at risk for compartment syndrome because ofthe cast. Which pain assessment finding most strongly suggests compartmentsyndrome?1. Pain on passive motion2. Sudden increase in pain3. Intense discomfort related to an itching sensation4. Absence of pain despite no recent medication21. Mr. O (tibia–fibula fracture) reports an increasing pain in the right abdomen.548On physical examination, there are hyperactive bowel sounds, a tenseabdomen with guarding, and exquisite tenderness with gentle palpation.What is the priority action?1. Give a PRN pain medication.2. Notify the HCP of findings.3. Take a complete set of vital signs.4. Assist him to change positions.22. Mr. H returns from the OR after a hernia repair. He says that he is “afraid towalk because it will make the pain really bad.” What does the nurse explainas being the best option?1. Pain medication every 4 hours if he needs or wants it2. Medication 30 to 40 minutes before ambulation or dressing changes3. Around-the-clock pain medication even if he has no report of pain4. Talking to the HCP for reassurance about the treatment plan23. Mr. H (hernia repair) says, “I have several friends who became addicted todrugs, and it totally ruined their lives. I’m afraid to take any kind of addictivedrugs.” What is the nurse's best response?1. “Your HCP prescribes types of opioids that do not cause addiction.”2. “You will be given opioids for a very short time, and addiction is unlikely.”3. “Your friends probably had addictive personalities; you don’t need toworry.”4. “If you become addicted, the HCP will refer you to a drug rehabilitationprogram.”24. Mr. H (hernia repair) is asking for pain medication, and the HCP hasordered 10 mg of immediate-release oxycodone as needed. The pharmacy hasstocked 5-mg tablets of controlled-release oxycodone in the medicationcabinet. What is the priority action?1. Call the HCP for clarification of the original prescription.2. Call the pharmacy and obtain the immediate-release form of the drug.3. Ask the patient if the immediate- or controlled-release action is preferred.4. Give two of the 5-mg tablets to achieve the correct dose.25. Mr. H is given a dose of pain medication. One hour later, he is anxious andappears uncomfortable, and he asks, “What's the matter? Is somethingwrong? I’m still hurting.” What action should be taken first?1. Call the HCP for a change in medication or dose.2. Initiate NPO in case surgery is needed.3. Check for bladder distention and last voiding.4. Reassure the patient that the hernia is not recurring.26. One of the staff members is talking about Mr. A, who has bacterialpneumonia, saying, “He complains all the time about pain everywhere. Well,549he is going to have pain. He's a drug addict, so what does he expect?” What isthe best response to this comment?1. “All patients have a right to care regardless of race or creed.”2. “I’ll take Mr. A; I don’t mind taking care of him.”3. “You should think about how he really feels.”4. “What can we do to help Mr. A cope with his pain?”27. Which tasks related to Mr. A's (bacterial pneumonia) pain management canbe delegated to the UAP? Select all that apply.1. Clean the transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) unit.2. Notify the nurse about the patient's request for pain medication.3. Reinforce the use of a pillow to splint when coughing.4. Observe for actions that increase fatigue or anxiety.5. Suggest that relatives bring personal comfort items.6. Assist the patient to change position every 2 hours.28. Mr. A (bacterial pneumonia) has a single-lumen peripherally inserted centralcatheter, and he has the following scheduled medications and IV solutionsthat need to be given now: vancomycin 1.5 g in 250 mL of 5% dextrose over90 minutes, levofloxacin 750 mg in 150 mL of normal saline over 90 minutes,5% dextrose and 0.45% saline 1000 mL with 20 mEq (20 mmol) of potassiumat 125 mL/hr, and an IV bolus dose of morphine 3 mg. What is the priorityaction?1. Call the HCP and ask if the medication times can be staggered.2. Call the pharmacy and inquire about the compatibility of medications andsolutions.3. Give the bolus dose of morphine because it will take the least amount oftime.4. Obtain an order to establish an additional peripheral IV site.29. Mr. A (bacterial pneumonia) reports left-sided anterior chest pain. What isthe priority action?1. Obtain an order for an electrocardiogram and continuous telemetrymonitoring.2. Auscultate the lung fields and compare to baseline assessments.3. Give a PRN pain medication and reevaluate after 30 minutes.4. Ask him to describe the pain and measure all vital signs.30. Later in the shift, Mr. A (bacterial pneumonia) reports, “The chest pain isgone, but my back really hurts a lot. I need more morphine.” Based on theethical principle of nonmaleficence, what is the nurse's priority action?1. Believe Mr. A's subjective report of pain and give pain medication asordered.2. Contact the HCP for an increase in dosage because Mr. A appears to need550higher doses.3. Consider history of addiction and chronic pain, respiratory status, and timeof last dose.4. Offer nonpharmaceutical measures, such as position change or distraction.31. The UAP reports that the new nurse is undermedicating the patients. Whatis the best way for the team leader to handle this situation?1. Ignore her; the UAP is not qualified to judge an RN.2. Ask the UAP to give specific examples.3. Go to the new nurse and question her.4. Do an assessment on all of the nurse's patients.32. Ms. J is receiving opiates to control her pain caused by end-stage multiplemyeloma. Which side effect is the major concern for this patient?1. Constipation2. Respiratory depression3. Nausea and vomiting4. Sedation33. After reviewing Ms. J's (end-stage multiple myeloma) medication list, thenurse is most likely to question scheduled doses of which medication?1. Naltrexone2. Fentanyl3. Morphine4. Acetaminophen34. Ms. J (end-stage multiple myeloma) is having severe pain and admits to it;however, she becomes very anxious when certain family members come andgo and refuses to take the pain medication. Which adjunct medication wouldbe most useful to Ms. J to help her manage these episodes?1. Naproxen2. Doxepin3. Lorazepam4. Dicyclomine35. Ms. J's (end-stage multiple myeloma) son tells the nurse, “My mom is havingtrouble breathing, and she is having a lot of pain!” On assessment, Ms. Jdemonstrates rapid shallow breathing and reports pain over the right lateralribs that increases with movement and breathing. What is the priority action?1. Take vital signs with pulse oximeter reading and inform the HCP.2. Apply oxygen and raise the head of the bed if patient is not hypotensive.3. Obtain an order to start an IV and to give a bolus dose of morphine.4. Be calm, stay with the patient, and encourage pursed-lip breathing.36. Ms. J's (end-stage multiple myeloma) son repeatedly insists that Ms. J is not551getting enough pain medication. He threatens to sue. The team leader hasused therapeutic communication skills with the son and advocated for thepatient with the HCP. The HCP says, “I’ll be in tomorrow. Just tell the son tochill out.” What is the best action?1. Call another HCP.2. Continue to use the current orders.3. Advise the son to call the HCP.4. Notify the unit manager.37. It is the end of the shift, and the new nurse is trying to give pain medicationto one patient, provide comfort measures for another patient, and redo painassessments on all her patients. Her documentation is incomplete. Whatshould the team leader do?1. Offer to help her by performing the comfort measures.2. Let her struggle through so she can find her own way.3. Help her to prioritize and delegate the tasks.4. Ask someone from the oncoming shift to help her.38. Which end-of-shift tasks can be delegated to the UAP? Select all that apply.1. Emptying Ms. J's (end-stage multiple myeloma) trash can and placingpersonal items within reach2. Checking Mr. A's (bacterial pneumonia) linens for moisture and soiling andchanging as needed3. Asking Mr. L (kidney stone) if he needs a dose of pain medication beforeshift change4. Assisting Ms. R (rheumatoid arthritis) to change position in bed to relievepressure on joints5. Ensuring Mr. O's (tibia–fibula fracture) leg is elevated and evaluatingcomfort6. Emptying Mr. A's (bacterial pneumonia) urinal and recording the output39. At the end of the shift, the opioid count shows that two tablets of oxycodoneare unaccounted for. The team leader has spoken to all of the nurses andpharmacists who had access to the medication cabinet during the shift, but noone will admit to removing those two tablets. What should the team leaderdo? Select all that apply.1. Inform the staff that no one can leave until the matter is resolved.2. Fill out an incident report and include facts about findings and actions.3. Interview all of the patients who have orders for oxycodone.4. Discuss the matter with the unit manager and review potential problems ofthe current system.5. Review available records of access and medication retrieval for the past 24hours.5526. Ask the staff if they saw any other people (e.g., students, HCPs, instructors)who may have accessed the cabinet during the shift.40. The team leader is giving the end-of-shift report about Ms. R (rheumatoidarthritis) to the oncoming nurse. Place the following information in thecorrect order.1. “She had shoulder pain (4 of 10) and was reluctant to move around.”2. “Do you have any questions for me?”3. “Ms. R is a 55-year-old woman.”4. “She had shoulder arthroplasty 3 days ago.”5. “She received a PRN dose of acetaminophen with codeine, and her pain isnow 1 of 10.”6. “The physical therapist must speak to Ms. R's daughter, so page him whenshe arrives.”_____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____553Answer Key1. Ans: 6, 3, 2, 1, 5, 4 Mr. A's respiratory status (i.e., rate, rhythm, pulse oximetryreading) should be quickly checked. Mr. O should be checked for shocksymptoms, mental status changes, and escalating pain. Mr. L and Ms. R areboth in relatively stable condition but need quick pain assessments andreassurance that their needs will be met. Ms. J and her family should beapproached last because they need time and patience, and caregivers shouldnot appear rushed. Mr. H is currently in the OR. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 2 Mr. A has complex problems, but the key points given in report aremedical diagnosis of pneumonia and oxygen desaturation during theevening. Also recall that HIV creates a greater risk for sepsis or septic shock.Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 4 The practice of PCA by proxy is not recommended because of theincreased risk for oversedation and respiratory depression. The team leaderwould first talk to the night nurse to remind or educate about the possibledangers. The team leader might also suggest that the night nurse talk to theclinical educator or review the latest literature about PCA usage. It is possiblethat the night nurse may have seen this practice in a case when the patientwas physically incapable of self-administration of PCA medication. The teamleader would then review the PCA procedure with the mother andemphasize the risks of PCA by proxy. Focus: Supervision, Prioritization.4. Ans: 1, 2, 4 Ms. R and Mr. L have conditions that require pain medication butare less physiologically complex. Mr. H will be out of surgery later in theshift, but hernia repairs are routine and reasonably predictable; this is a goodpostoperative case for a new RN. Mr. O will require careful assessment forslowly developing complications such as hemorrhage or peritonitis. Ms. J andher family will need support through anticipated grief and loss and complexdecision making for hospice and end-of-life issues. Mr. A's respiratory statusmust be carefully monitored, and he has complex pain and care issues. Focus:Assignment.5. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 5 Helping with hygienic care and reinforcing instructions thathave been explained by the RN are within the scope of practice of the UAP.Mr. H should not need any specialized equipment, so the UAP can preparethe bed and gather routine equipment, such as devices for measuring vitalsigns. The UAP can get coffee. (Note to student: The nurse may encourageMs. J's family to take occasional breaks off the floor. Also, sending one of thefamily members to get things is a way for them to have an active role.) Mr.O's skin care and assessment should be performed by the RN; the problem isextensive, and pain medication may need to be titrated. A nurse shouldassess Mr. A because his oxygen saturation was decreasing during the night.Decreasing oxygen saturation is a red flag that can indicate actual orimpending respiratory failure. In addition, Mr. A is immunocompromised, so554he is at risk for sepsis and septic shock. Also, a pulse oximeter is only a tool;many factors can cause inaccurate readings (e.g., cold room temperature, atight sleeve, position of the sensor); therefore, the nurse should check Mr. A'spulse oximeter reading and concurrently assess his respiratory status. Focus:Delegation; Test Taking Tip: Analyze the overall intent of the question andthe information that is provided. The nurse often delegates performing thepulse oximeter readings to the UAP; however, when the patient is critically illor unstable, the nurse must concurrently check and evaluate vital signs andperform complex assessments.6. Ans: 4 Acknowledge loss and encourage the patient to talk about the past.During this discussion, the nurse and the patient might find activities thatcould be adapted to her current situation. Try to avoid giving falsereassurance, changing the subject, or switching the focus from the patient'sneeds to the nurse's concerns. Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 2 The occupational therapist can review the goals, progression,limitations, and how to overcome barriers associated with performing theexercises. If the patient's reluctance continues, other members of the healthcare team may be consulted as needed. Focus: Prioritization.8. Ans: 3 The shower is preferred because patients with arthritis can havetrouble getting in and out of a bathtub. An RN should suggest relaxationtechniques and evaluate outcomes of therapies. Focus: Delegation.9. Ans: 1 The shoulder joint is complex and has many articulation surfaces;therefore, partial or complete dislocation is a major potential complication.Excessive force or movement could cause dislocation. Focus: Prioritization.10. Ans: 2 Patients with kidney stones usually present to the health care facilitybecause of severe excruciating pain. The pain usually occurs as the stonemoves down the ureter. This is not a life-threatening condition, but patientscan be in agony. If the patient cannot void, the stone may be lodged; this alsocauses pain. If the patient cannot pass urine for a prolonged period, thenelimination would become the priority concept because of potential damageto the kidneys and inability to eliminate toxic substances. Focus:Prioritization.11. Ans: 2 Encourage staff members to deal directly with each other to defineand resolve problems. If staff cannot resolve the problem among themselvesor if the issue is a chronic problem, then the charge nurse or unit managershould intervene. Helping the new nurse to look at the chart should not benecessary at this point. Asking the patient does not address the problem ofthe missing documentation. Potentially, the new nurse could look at the PCApump for a record of self-administered medication, but the machine does notreplace good communication among staff members. In addition, the patient'sresponse must be documented even though he is self-administering themedication. Focus: Supervision.12. Ans: 1, 3, 5 Because communication is limited in unresponsive patients, all555staff members should be watchful for signs. The RN should instruct the UAPabout specific signs to watch for. Reminding patients that staff are availableto help relieve pain is appropriate. If the UAP suspects pain, asking thepatient a direct “yes-or-no” question is appropriate; then the nurse can benotified. Assessing pain and evaluating outcomes are the responsibilities ofthe RN. (Note to student: Even if the patient says to the UAP, “The positionchange helps to relieve my pain,” the nurse should still follow up and do apain assessment.) Focus: Delegation.13. Ans: 2, 1, 4, 3 It is unlikely that Mr. O's pump will deliver excess medication;however, it is appropriate to discontinue the pump until its functioning canbe completely checked. But do not forget to go back soon after andtroubleshoot the problem with the pump. Mr. L is probably having ongoingpain issues, but loud calls for assistance must be investigated. Mr. A must beassessed for mental status changes related to hypoxia or encephalopathy. Inaddition, he needs help to clean up, to get back in bed, and to reposition theoxygen cannula. The other nurse could ask someone else to witness ifnecessary. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 3 Mr. L is having an exacerbation of pain that is probably related to themovement of the kidney stone. This type of pain is severe but usuallytransient. If the bolus dose is inadequate, the HCP could be notified for adosage increase. Deep breathing may help somewhat, but the patient willhave trouble focusing. Reminding him to use the PCA pump is not necessaryat this point. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 4 Use a matter-of-fact tone of voice to acknowledge his underlyingproblem (pain). Restarting the IV line addresses the immediate issue.Contacting the HCP for oral medications might be considered if no one isable to restart the IV line. Calling the supervisor is a possibility if the patientcontinues to complain and wants to make a report. Defensive statements suchas “It's not my fault” can make the situation worse. Focus: Prioritization.16. Ans: 1 Balancing fluids is the best strategy; this makes passage of the stoneless painful. Focus: Prioritization.17. Ans: 3 Scant output suggests that the stone is lodged and obstructing theoutflow of urine. This can result in damage to the kidney. Hematuria with orwithout pain can occur because the stone has irritated the tissue. Dull painthat radiates into the genitalia and urgency are common with kidney stones.Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Decreased urine output should alwaysbe investigated as a signal of possible dysfunction (in this case, obstruction).Decreased output can also be related to decreased perfusion, which willeventually cause renal failure.18. Ans: 3 Elevating the injured extremity will minimize the swelling. If the legswells, there is additional pressure on nerves. Moving the toes helps, but Mr.O cannot consistently comply when he is sleeping or fatigued. Diversiontherapy is less useful in the acute phase of injury and treatment. Placing the556patient in a high Fowler position will necessitate raising the leg to a higherand more uncomfortable position. Focus: Prioritization.19. Ans: 4 Patients are taught to activate the PCA about 10 minutes beforepainful procedures because this is the approximate time that it takes for theIV morphine to work. Activating the PCA for pain 5 of 10 may be suitable forsome patients, but this level of pain would be excessive for others. Althoughlockout time should be explained, the nurse should not encourage the patientto focus on it or to take doses based on expiration of lockout time. Focus:Prioritization.20. Ans: 1 Pain on passive motion is a sign of possible compartment syndrome.A sudden increase in pain is more associated with arterial obstruction.Itching is a frequent problem associated with a cast that can be relieved byblowing cool air under the cast. Absence of pain without medication could berelated to maintaining elevation, ice application, and rest. Focus:Prioritization.21. Ans: 3 Measure vital signs first and then report the findings to the HCP. Mr.O is at risk for occult abdominal trauma, and the findings represent a changeof status and could be signs of internal bleeding. Focus: Prioritization; TestTaking Tip: Assessment is the first step of nursing process. In addition, whenthe nurse calls the HCP, one of essential parts of the SBAR (situation,background, assessment, recommendation) report is assessment, whichalways includes vital signs.22. Ans: 2 Mr. H is anticipating that the pain is going to be worsened by activity.Giving oral pain medication 30 to 40 minutes before the activity assures himthat the pain will be minimized. The second-best option is to reassure himthat medication is available if he needs it. Around-the-clock medication andnotification of the HCP are not necessary at this point. Focus: Prioritization.23. Ans: 2 Short-term use of opioids for medical purposes is unlikely to causeany problems. Physical dependency occurs when opioids are abruptlystopped and physical symptoms occur; if dependency does occur, patientscan be gradually tapered off opioids. Physical dependency is not the same asaddiction. Although there is a small percentage of the population that isprone to addictive behaviors, the majority of patients stop taking opioidswhen the pain is gone, and there is no addiction. Focus: Prioritization.24. Ans: 2 Obtain and administer the medication in the dosage and form inwhich it was prescribed. The nurse can call the HCP if the prescription is notclearly written or if the nurse is trying to get the prescription changed (e.g.,the pharmacy does not have the medication). Asking preference forimmediate- versus controlled-release action is an inappropriate way tophrase the question to the patient. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip:Don't forget to review your fundamentals textbook. This material aboutmedication administration is usually covered in the first semester of thenursing program.55725. Ans: 3 Mr. H may be experiencing urinary retention because of bladderatony related to the surgical procedure. A distended bladder can mimichernia pain and cause significant discomfort, and Mr. H may not have theurge to void. Calling the HCP and initiating nothing by mouth status arepremature at this point. Reassurance may be somewhat comforting but doesnot address the immediate symptom. Focus: Prioritization.26. Ans: 4 Mr. A has complex needs. Although the staff gets tired of hearingcontinual complaints, everyone should work together to try to solve theproblem. Reminding staff that patients have a right to care is rhetorical andnot very useful. Offering to care for Mr. A every day does not help the teamto overcome bias or improve patient care. When feedback is given, statementsthat begin with “You should” should be avoided. Focus: Supervision.27. Ans: 2, 3, 6 The UAP is qualified to help with routine position changes andcan reinforce instructions given by the RN. The UAP should report a patient'srequests to the nurse. The physical therapist should be consulted abouthandling the TENS equipment. An RN should assess for fatigue and anxiety.Personal comfort items are permissible, but belongings can get misplaced andthe nurse should take responsibility to have this discussion with the familyand patient. Focus: Assignment.28. Ans: 2 First call the pharmacy and ask about compatibilities. If the solutionsand medications are compatible, they can be given simultaneously. If thereare incompatibilities, the nurse may decide to give the morphine first becausethis can be administered quickly and will give the patient immediate relief.Then the nurse can call the HCP for a prescription to stagger medicationtimes or to establish a second IV site. (Note to student: Some facilities allowthe nurse to change medication times or to start a second peripheral IV sitewithout a HCP's prescription; however, medication and IV therapy generallyrequire a HCP's prescription. Follow policy and procedure manuals and askcharge nurse or supervisor for guidance.) Focus: Prioritization.29. Ans: 4 Conduct additional pain assessment with vital sign measurement.This will determine what interventions are needed. Focus: Prioritization.30. Ans: 3 To exercise nonmaleficence, the nurse must prevent harm to thepatient. Mr. A has an extremely complex situation, and the nurse must useclinical judgment and consider multiple factors before offering additionalmorphine. The nurse recalls that Mr. A was desaturating during the night;therefore, respiratory status is the biggest concern. The nurse would notwithhold medication because of a history of addiction. Because of addiction,Mr. A is likely to need higher doses to achieve relief. The nurse would reviewthe time of last dose and efficacy of nonpharmaceutical options. Opioids arenot typically first-line drugs for chronic back pain; other medication andtreatment options are available. Focus: Prioritization.31. Ans: 2 When talking to other staff members, specific examples are moreuseful than vague generalizations. Specific examples will also help the nurse558to determine whether there are extenuating circumstances that the UAP maybe misinterpreting. The team leader may then decide to talk to the new nurseabout the specific circumstances or to assess the patients. Comments aboutpatient care issues should not be ignored; all team members should beencouraged to watch out for the health and safety of patients. Focus:Supervision.32. Ans: 1 A patient such as Ms. J has taken opiates for a long time. Constipationis the only opioid side effect to which the patient does not develop tolerance.Respiratory depression, nausea, vomiting, and sedation may have occurredwhen Ms. J was first receiving opioids but are now less of a concern. Focus:Prioritization.33. Ans: 1 Naltrexone is an opioid antagonist, which would cause opioidwithdrawal and result in causing the patient significant pain. It is given ifpatients have significant respiratory depression caused by opioids. Focus:Prioritization.34. Ans: 3 Lorazepam is an anxiolytic. Naproxen is a nonsteroidal antiinflammatorydrug. Doxepin is used for depression or neuropathic pain.Dicyclomine is given to reduce smooth muscle spasms. Focus: Prioritization.35. Ans: 2 The patient needs immediate intervention for relief of dyspnea.Oxygen and elevating the head of the bed are quick actions that the nurseshould take immediately. If the patient is hypotensive, there is a possibility offainting; however, dyspnea usually increases blood pressure because thepatient will panic, fight for air, and struggle to sit upright. PRN oralmorphine is typically prescribed for hospice patients and those who needend-of-life care. Focus: Prioritization.36. Ans: 4 Communication skills are important in dealing with the family andthe HCP. If the nurse has exhausted this route, the next step is to move up thechain of command. Calling another HCP is not appropriate. The nurse shoulduse interdisciplinary collaboration to problem solve rather than shifting theresponsibility to the son. The nurse must function under the currentprescriptions and use additional nonpharmacologic measures until the issueis resolved. Focus: Prioritization.37. Ans: 3 Help the nurse to prioritize what has to be done and help herrecognize what can and cannot be delegated. Offering help is appropriate ifpatient safety is compromised, and it does contribute to team building;however, it does not help her learn to organize her work. Letting her struggleis one method of learning, but new nurses deserve guidance and support.Help her to determine what tasks can be passed on to the next shift, and thenshe can discuss this during shift report. Focus: Supervision.38. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 6 Emptying the trash, assisting patients with personal items,changing linens, and recording urine as output are within the scope of dutiesfor the UAP. Helping patients such as Ms. R change position in bed is alsoappropriate. (There may be times when the nurse should change the patient's559position if assessments of the skin or mobility are needed.) The nurse shouldassess Mr. L's back pain and need for additional medication. Mr. O's leg mustbe assessed by the nurse for perfusion; merely looking to see if the leg iselevated is insufficient. Focus: Delegation.39. Ans: 2, 4, 5, 6 Electronic units are usually very effective in assisting the staffto keep track of dispensed doses; however, users must enter correct data, andmost systems have “workarounds” that negate safety measures. Try to gatheras much information as possible and discuss the problem with the unitmanager. This could be a case of theft, but it may also be a system error thatneeds to be corrected. It is not appropriate to draw patients into this problem,and forcing everyone to stay is pointless if all staff members have alreadybeen interviewed. Focus: Supervision, Prioritization.40. Ans: 3, 4, 1, 5, 6, 2 The report should be succinct and organized so that thelistener will have a clear idea of who is involved, what the major issues are,what measures were done to address the issues, and what requires follow-up.The listener also needs the opportunity to clarify what has been said. Thiswill increase mutual understanding. Focus: Prioritization.560C A S E S T U D Y 11561Multiple Clients With Cancer562QuestionsThe RN is the leader of a team caring for clients on a medical-surgical oncology unit.In addition to the leader, the team includes an experienced chemotherapy-certified RN,a new unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP), and a first-semester nursing student. Themorning hand-off report includes the following information: (Note to student: Thiscase study includes six clients; take notes as though you were listening to morningreport and refer to your notes as you work through the case study.)• Mr. N, a 68-year-old man, went to see his health care provider (HCP) with fever,weight loss, and painless axillary nodes. After lymph node biopsy, non-Hodgkinlymphoma was diagnosed. He is receiving chemotherapy and is on neutropenicprecautions. He currently is afebrile, is in good spirits, and feels reasonably well.• Mr. L, a 50-year-old man, was transferred 6 days ago from the surgical intensive careunit (ICU) after a tracheostomy and partial laryngectomy. He has a soft, small-borenasogastric (NG) tube and a tracheostomy tube and is currently receivingchemotherapy. He received radiation therapy before surgery.• Mr. B, a 59-year-old man, went to his HCP with painless hematuria, and bladdercancer was subsequently diagnosed. He was admitted for intravesical chemotherapy.He received procedure-related teaching before admission. He is alert and conversant,and he independently performs activities of daily living (ADLs).• Ms. C, a 70-year-old woman, went to her HCP because of rectal bleeding and achange in bowel habits. She underwent a bowel resection and colostomy 5 days ago.She is progressing well but needs and likes companionship at the bedside.• Ms. G, a 65-year-old woman, was admitted for a right breast lumpectomy; it isscheduled for later in the day. Radiation therapy is planned as part of the follow-uptreatment. She appears nervous and tearful and is frequently asking questions.• Mr. U, a 62-year-old man, has a history of cough, hemoptysis, fatigue, and dyspnea.After bronchoscopy and sputum cytologic analysis, non–small cell lung cancer wasdiagnosed. He underwent pulmonary resection 5 days ago and has a chest tubedrainage system. He is having significant and continuous pain. A patient-controlledanalgesia (PCA) pump is being considered, but Mr. U expresses reluctance to use it.1. The team leader makes very brief rounds to see each client before receivingthe shift report to ensure client safety and to help determine acuity andassignments. Which actions will these brief assessments entail? Select all thatapply.1. Asking, “How are you feeling?”2. Noting mental status (alert and oriented?)3. Measuring vital signs and looking at intake and output4. Palpating chest and abdominal areas for pain5635. Noting the presence and complexity of equipment6. Observing ease of respiratory effort2. The first-semester nursing student tells the team leader that her clinicalassignment for the day is to take vital signs and obtain a client history thatwill take about 1 or 2 hours to complete. Which clients would the leaderrecommend that she approach to fulfill her assignment? Select all that apply.1. Mr. N (non-Hodgkin lymphoma)2. Mr. L (tracheostomy and partial laryngectomy)3. Mr. B (bladder cancer)4. Ms. C (bowel resection and colostomy)5. Ms. G (breast lumpectomy)6. Mr. U (pulmonary resection)3. The team leader must assign a UAP to help care for Mr. N with non-Hodgkinlymphoma. For this neutropenic client, which factor is most important inmaking this assignment?1. The UAP is in the first trimester of pregnancy.2. The UAP has had cold symptoms for 3 days.3. The UAP has no experience with neutropenic precautions.4. The UAP has a generalized fear of isolation clients.4. The nursing student tearfully reports to the leader, “I took some flowers intoMr. N's (non-Hodgkin lymphoma) room to cheer him up, and he told me thathe didn’t think he was supposed to have flowers. I took them out of the roomright away, and then I realized I had made a mistake.” What should the teamleader do first?1. Direct the student to read the isolation precautions before entering theroom.2. Call the nursing instructor and report the student for making an error.3. Acknowledge and praise the student for taking responsibility for themistake.4. Write an incident report and have the student and instructor sign it.5. The team leader is reviewing what the HCP has just prescribed for Mr. N(non-Hodgkin lymphoma). What will the team leader question?1. Administer filgrastim 5 mcg/kg subcutaneously every day.2. Catheterize to obtain a urinalysis specimen.3. Flush the IV saline lock every shift.4. Monitor vital signs every 4 hours.6. Mr. N (non-Hodgkin lymphoma) shyly asks, “Do doctors have a special waythat they wash their hands? Everybody washes their hands and thenrewashes their hands before they touch me or any of my personal items.Everybody—except that one doctor.” What is the team leader's priority564action?1. Reassure the client that the HCP probably washed his hands just beforeentering the room.2. Tell the client that the staff's actions to protect against infection are basedon the latest laboratory results.3. Contact the infection control person because the HCP probably needs areview of infection control procedures.4. Approach the HCP and explain what the client noticed and the client'sconcerns about the hand washing.7. The nurse is reviewing Mr. N's (non-Hodgkin lymphoma) medicationadministration record and sees that the combination therapy aprepitant,dexamethasone, and ondansetron was administered during the last shift.What is the nurse most likely to ask to determine efficacy of the therapy?1. “On a scale of 1 to 10, with 1 being the least and 10 being the worst, whatnumber is your pain? Where is the pain located?”2. “Have the medications improved your appetite? Are there special foodsthat you would prefer?”3. “Are you having any feelings of nausea right now? When was the last timeyou vomited?”4. “After taking the medications, have you experienced any improvement inyour energy level? Do you feel fatigued?”8. Mr. N (non-Hodgkin lymphoma) reports noticing some transient numbnessand tingling in his lower legs with occasional mild burning type pain. What isthe nurse most likely to do first?1. Assess for signs and symptoms of venous thromboembolism.2. Check for signs and symptoms of peripheral arterial insufficiency.3. Ask the client to ambulate to stimulate muscles and circulation.4. Assess for possible chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy.9. In the early postoperative period, what is the priority concern for Mr. L, whohas a tracheostomy and partial laryngectomy?1. Possible infection related to chemotherapy and surgical procedure2. Poor nutritional intake related to dysphagia and malignancy3. Difficulty communicating needs because of the tracheostomy tube4. High risk for aspiration because of secretions and removal of epiglottis10. Which assessment finding for Mr. L (tracheostomy and partiallaryngectomy) would be of greatest concern?1. Pulsation of the tracheostomy tube in synchrony with the heartbeat2. Increased secretions in and around the tracheostomy3. Increased coughing, with difficulty in expectorating secretions4. Presence of food particles in tracheal secretions56511. The team leader is teaching the nursing student about emergencyrespiratory equipment that should be available for Mr. L (tracheostomy andpartial laryngectomy). Which piece of equipment is the most important toshow to the student?1. Adult-sized endotracheal tube2. Laryngeal scope with blades of several sizes3. Bag-valve mask with extension tubing4. Tracheostomy insertion tray12. Mr. L (tracheostomy and partial laryngectomy) needs to receive a dose of IVchemotherapy during the shift. What is the most important action to take toprevent extravasation?1. Carefully monitor the access site during the administration of themedication.2. Hold the medication until an implanted port or central line is established.3. Ensure that a chemotherapy-certified nurse is assigned to care for the client.4. Call the pharmacy to find out if the prescribed medication has vesicantproperties.13. Mr. L (tracheostomy and partial laryngectomy) has been receiving 10 mg ofIV morphine for pain. The HCP tells the nurse that Mr. L will be switched tooral (liquid) hydromorphone 5 mg. When the nurse checks an equianalgesicdose table, she sees that 10 mg of morphine equals 7.5 mg of hydromorphone.What should the nurse do?1. Call the pharmacy to double check that the equianalgesic dose is actually7.5 mg.2. Recognize that variable cross-tolerance necessitates upward titration forsafety.3. Question the HCP because the client deserves to have adequate pain relief.4. Wait until the change of medication occurs and then monitor the client'sresponse.14. Mr. B will receive intravesical chemotherapy consisting of bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) instillation for his bladder cancer. Place the following stepsrelated to this therapy in the correct order.1. Clamp the tube distal to the injection port of the catheter.2. Insert an indwelling urinary catheter.3. Instill BCG fluid via the catheter.4. Change the client's position from side to side every 15 minutes for 2 hours.5. Direct the client to drink two glasses of water to flush the bladder.6. Unclamp the catheter at the end of 2 hours._____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____15. After the BCG treatment, the team leader delegates disposal of the fluid566contents in Mr. B's (bladder cancer) urinary drainage bag to the UAP. Whatinstructions should be given to the UAP?1. “No special handling of the bag or its contents is required.”2. “Wear a lead apron when you are emptying the drainage container.”3. “Discard the fluid in the toilet and disinfect the toilet with bleach for 6hours.”4. “Wear sterile gloves when you are handling the bag and its contents.”16. The HCP should be notified if a normal voiding pattern (e.g., pain free,symptom free) fails to resume within which time period after removal of Mr.B's (bladder cancer) catheter (after the BCG treatment)?1. 6 hours2. 12 hours3. 3 days4. 1 week17. The nurse sees that Mr. B (bladder cancer) has received docusate for the past2 days. Which question is the nurse most likely to ask to evaluate theeffectiveness of the docusate?1. “Are you experiencing any burning with urination?”2. “Did you have a bowel movement today or yesterday?”3. “Has the medication helped to relieve the nausea?”4. “Were you able to sleep soundly the last couple of nights?”18. During the midmorning, the following events occur at the same time.Prioritize the events in the order in which they should be addressed, with 1being the most urgent and 5 being the least.1. Mr. B, who has bladder cancer, reports dysuria.2. Mr. U's (pulmonary resection) chest drainage system has tipped over.3. Mr. N, with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, has a fever of 101°F (38.3°C).4. Mr. L's (partial laryngectomy) tracheostomy tube needs to be suctioned.5. Ms. C, who had a bowel resection, has a swollen, tender, red calf._____, _____, _____, _____, _____19. In helping a client such as Ms. C, who had a colostomy with a bowelresection, which tasks can be delegated to the UAP? Select all that apply.1. Assist Ms. C with perineal care.2. Help Ms. C to position the adhesive wafer over the stoma.3. Empty the colostomy bag and measure the contents.4. Assist Ms. C to reapply a new colostomy bag.5. Help Ms. C to select dinner items from the menu.6. Report that Ms. C has a question about odor from the bag.20. Ms. C (bowel resection) repeatedly refuses to perform a return567demonstration of any aspect of colostomy care. Despite steady improvementand independent resumption of other ADLs, she protests, “I’m too weak.You’ll have to do it for me.” At this point, what is the priority nursingconcept to consider in planning interventions for Ms. C?1. Mobility2. Tissue integrity3. Functional ability4. Coping21. The nursing staff are making suggestions about how to help Ms. C (bowelresection) overcome her reluctance to perform colostomy care. Whichsuggestion will the team leader try first?1. Verbally reexplain the procedure and give her written material.2. Have a family member come in and do it for her.3. Continue to do it for her until she is ready.4. Ask her to hold the clamp while the bag is being emptied.22. Ms. C (bowel resection and colostomy) repeatedly calls for help during theshift with various small requests. She is talkative and pleasant, and she doeseverything she can to get staff members to “stay and chat.” What is the bestresponse?1. “I really do like talking to you, but I do have other clients.”2. “You’ll be okay for right now, and I will come back and check on youlater.”3. “I have 10 minutes right now. Later this afternoon, I’ll have time to talk.”4. “Let me call one of the hospital volunteers to come and sit with you.”23. Ms. C (bowel resection and colostomy) is receiving epoetin alfa. Whichlaboratory test will the nurse check to see if the medication should bediscontinued?1. Hemoglobin2. White cell count3. Potassium level4. Blood glucose level24. The team leader is working through the preoperative checklist and Ms. G,who has a breast lump, begins to cry. “What do you think about this breastsurgery? My friend's arm got really swollen after she had the surgery. Can’t Ijust take medication?” What is the priority nursing concept to consider inresponding to Ms. G?1. Anxiety2. Cellular regulation3. Functional ability4. Adherence56825. Ms. G (breast lumpectomy) continues to be anxious and tearful, and she saysthat she has changed her mind about the surgery, saying, “I’m going to gohome. I just can’t deal with everything that is going on right now. I needsome time to think about things.” What is the best response?1. “It's okay to change your mind. You have the right to make your owndecisions.”2. “Please reconsider. This surgery is very important, and your health is thepriority.”3. “Would you like me to call your HCP, so you can discuss your concerns?”4. “I see you are very concerned. What things are you dealing with andthinking about?”26. The team leader is reviewing the pain management plan for Mr. U. He ishaving significant pain related to the cancer and the pulmonary resection.Which option would be the best for Mr. U?1. Mr. U is instructed to ask for pain medication whenever he needs it.2. Mr. U is to receive around-the-clock fixed doses of opioid analgesics.3. Mr. U should be offered the nonopioid medication first to see it if works.4. Mr. U has a high risk for respiratory distress, so opioids are not prescribed.27. For administering pain medication to Mr. U (lung cancer and pulmonaryresection), which route is the nurse most likely to question?1. Oral2. IV3. Rectal4. Intramuscular28. Which assessment finding is the most critical and needs to be addressedfirst?1. Mr. U has tracheal deviation after a pulmonary resection.2. Mr. B, with bladder cancer, has decreased urinary output.3. Mr. N, with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, is having dysrhythmias.4. Ms. C has severe abdominal pain after a bowel resection.29. Which assessment findings accompany a tension pneumothorax? Select allthat apply.1. Severe dyspnea2. Extreme agitation3. Tracheal deviation4. Progressive cyanosis5. Bradycardia6. Distended jugular veins30. Mr. U (pulmonary resection) has developed a tension pneumothorax. He is569currently receiving high-flow oxygen via nonrebreather mask but continuesto experience respiratory distress. What is the priority action?1. Remove the occlusive dressing around the chest wound.2. Perform a needle thoracotomy with a 14- to 16-gauge catheter needle.3. Initiate cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).4. Call for the crash cart and intubation equipment.31. The team leader is calling the HCP to report events related to Mr. U's(pulmonary resection complicated by tension pneumothorax) condition.Prioritize the following information according to the SBAR (situation,background, assessment, recommendation) format.1. “Mr. U is 5 days postoperative for pulmonary resection for non–small celllung cancer. He has a chest tube that has been draining progressivelysmaller amounts of dark red blood.”2. “Dr. S, this is Nurse C on the medical-surgical oncology unit. I am callingabout Mr. U. About 15 minutes ago, he developed severe respiratorydistress, and tracheal deviation was noted. We removed the occlusivedressing at the chest tube insertion site, and his breathing improved. TheRapid Response Team was called and is currently managing the airway. Heis receiving 100% oxygen via a nonrebreather mask.”3. “The Rapid Response Team is recommending transfer to the ICU becausethe exact cause of the tension pneumothorax is undetermined. Theradiology department is waiting to do a portable chest radiograph if wecould get an order. Would you like us to get an arterial blood gas analysisor do anything else?”4. “Mr. U is currently alert and anxious, and he is following commands. Bloodpressure is 160/96 mm Hg, pulse rate is 110 beats/min, respiratory rate is 32breaths/min, and pulse oximetry reading is 90% with the client on 100%oxygen via nonrebreather mask.”_____, _____, _____, _____32. There are 2 hours left before the shift ends. The new UAP tells the teamleader that she must leave now because she has a family emergency. Whatshould the team leader do? Select all that apply.1. Ask her what tasks and duties are pending for the next 2 hours.2. Call a UAP who is scheduled for the next shift to come early.3. Allow her to leave but remind her she is still on probation as a new staffmember.4. Call another unit and see if there is a UAP who could float to the unit.5. Ask her to explain the nature of the family emergency so that a decision canbe made.6. Check with the other staff members to see if they will be able to cover herduties.57033. The nursing student tells the team leader that Ms. C (bowel resection andcolostomy) has just asked her to stay after the shift ends so that she can meether granddaughter. What is the best response?1. “What do you think your instructor would tell you to do?”2. “What do you think about Ms. C's request?”3. “It sounds like you really made a connection with Ms. C.”4. “Tell Ms. C that you have to go, but you will see her tomorrow.”571Answer Key1. Ans: 1, 2, 5, 6 When the client responds to a question, this providesinformation about ease of respirations and cerebral perfusion. Noting thepresence of complex equipment will help in making assignments, particularlyif the staff is inexperienced. Measuring vital signs, checking intake andoutput, and palpating for pain are not necessary during this brief assessmentunless there is reason to suspect that the client is decompensating. (Note:Some nurses briefly palpate the radial pulse to detect irregularities, assessperipheral perfusion, and to check skin temperature.) Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 3, 4 Mr. B and Ms. C are clients in relatively stable condition who wouldbe capable of speaking with a nursing student for a prolonged time. Mr. N isalso communicative and in stable condition, but limiting the number ofpeople that enter the room is best practice for neutropenic clients. Mr. L hasrecently been transferred from the surgical ICU. The tracheostomy tube,dealing with the secretions, and the NG tube will make communication verytedious and overwhelming for him and the student. Mr. U needs frequentskilled assessment, and he is likely to be very uncomfortable, exhausted, andpossibly dyspneic. Ms. G needs emotional support and preoperative teachingthat are beyond the abilities of a first-semester student. Focus: Assignment,Supervision.3. Ans: 2 Staff and visitors with potentially communicable diseases should notenter Mr. N's protective environment. Pregnancy, inexperience, and fear donot automatically exclude staff members from this assignment. If the teamleader has time and options for personnel, then opportunities for dutysharing for pregnant staff members and teaching for the inexperienced andfearful can be explored. Focus: Assignment, Supervision.4. Ans: 3 Acknowledge the student for taking responsibility for the error.Helping the student to feel comfortable in reporting errors rather than hidingmistakes is essential for client safety. Notifying the instructor, afteracknowledging the student for taking responsibility, is appropriate so thatthe student can be counseled and procedures reviewed. All involved partiesmay elect to write separate incident reports. Focus: Supervision.5. Ans: 2 Catheterizing this client increases the risk for infection, and the cleancatchmethod is adequate for a urinalysis. The other interventions would beappropriate for this client. Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 4 The nurse must use a professional and nonaccusatory tone of voiceand manner in approaching the HCP. Client data are communicated toimprove client care. Neutropenic precautions are usually based on laboratoryresults, but best practices would still include washing hands upon enteringthe room and then again before touching the client. Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 3 The combination of medications aprepitant, dexamethasone, and572ondansetron is used for high-emetogenic risk for chemotherapy-inducednausea and vomiting. Focus: Prioritization.8. Ans: 4 Numbness, tingling, and neuropathic pain are reported by clients withchemotherapy induced peripheral neuropathy. For venousthromboembolism, expected signs and symptoms include calf or grointenderness and pain and sudden onset of unilateral swelling of the leg andinduration (hardening) along the blood vessel and with warmth and edema.Peripheral arterial insufficiency would manifest as pain, pallor, pulselessness,paresthesia, paralysis, and poikilothermy (coolness). Before the client standsand ambulates, additional assessment would be performed to prevent falls.Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 4 Increased secretions, difficulty swallowing, and loss of the protectiveepiglottis put Mr. L at risk for aspiration. The other concerns also apply tothis client but are of lower priority. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip:Use the ABCs (airway, breathing, and circulation) to determine the prioritiesin the immediate postprocedural or postoperative care of clients who havehad invasive procedures or surgery that requires general anesthesia.10. Ans: 1 Pulsation would suggest that the tube may be malpositioned andpushing against the innominate artery. This would be considered a medicalemergency. The presence of food particles and difficulty with cough orexpectoration suggest that cuff pressures should be monitored more closely.Increased secretions are expected in the postoperative period. Focus:Prioritization.11. Ans: 3 The bag-valve mask (trade name, Ambu bag) is the first thing that isneeded if there is a problem with the tracheostomy equipment or withrespiratory effort. With a tracheostomy, there should be no need for anendotracheal tube or a laryngeal scope. The insertion tray is also probablyunnecessary because the site should mature within 72 hours. Focus:Prioritization.12. Ans: 1 If a very small amount (less than 0.5 mL) of a vesicant (chemical thatdamages the skin on contact) has leaked into skin, the likelihood of damage islower. Thus, very close monitoring can prevent larger amounts of leakageinto the tissues. The chemotherapy-certified nurse has the knowledge tosafely administer chemotherapy, but close monitoring is still required. If themedication is a known vesicant, the nurse is more likely to closely monitorthe access site, but any infiltration can be uncomfortable and problematic forthe client. Holding the medication is not appropriate, but the nurse mayadvocate for central line placement. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 2 The cross-tolerance of opioids can vary. There is a potential that anequal dose could produce a stronger effect, so starting low and titratingupward would be considered safer. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 2, 1, 3, 4, 6, 5 An indwelling catheter with a drainage bag will beinserted. The tube is clamped distal to the injection port, the BCG fluid is573instilled through the catheter, and the catheter remains clamped for 2 hours.During those hours, Mr. B should be reminded to change position from sideto side or prone to supine every 15 to 30 minutes. At the end of the 2 hours,the catheter is unclamped, and the fluid is drained. Two glasses of fluid aregiven to further flush the bladder. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 3 The toilet should be disinfected for 6 hours after the fluid isdiscarded. The UAP should receive these specific instructions to safelymanage this biohazard. Wearing a lead apron or sterile gloves is notnecessary. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.16. Ans: 3 The goal is resumption of normal voiding within 3 days. Immediatelyafter catheter removal and for 1 to 2 days thereafter, Mr. B may experiencedysuria, urgency, and frequency. Focus: Prioritization.17. Ans: 2 Docusate is a stool softener that is given for occasional constipation.Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Initially, focus your study ofpharmacology and medications on the more common medications that aretypically used on general medical-surgical units. If you know the purpose ofa medication, you can assess for therapeutic effects.18. Ans: 4, 2, 3, 5, 1 Mr. L is at risk for aspiration and an immediate airwayobstruction if his tracheostomy tube is not suctioned. If a chest drainagesystem tips over, it is unlikely that anything untoward will occur; however, ifthe chest tube has been displaced, Mr. U is at risk for an open pneumothorax.The HCP must be notified about Mr. N's fever so that therapy can be changedand cultures ordered to determine the source of infection. Ms. C must beassessed for signs and symptoms of venous thromboembolism. Mr. B needsreassurance that the dysuria is transient and to be expected after intravesicaltherapy. Focus: Prioritization.19. Ans: 1, 3, 6 The UAP can assist Ms. C with hygienic care and measuringoutput. The UAP should also report client's concerns to RN. The RN shouldperform the tasks related to changing the colostomy appliance, becauseeducation and assessment of client's self-management are necessary. The RNshould also assist with the menu selection because some foods increase riskfor blockage (e.g., popcorn or seeds) and other foods increase odors (e.g.,onions or beans). Focus: Delegation.20. Ans: 4 Asking for extra help and delaying independent action is a type ofregression that allows Ms. C to cope with the changes in self-image andbodily functions. The nurse should evaluate the situation daily to help Ms. Cfind alternative coping strategies. Focus: Prioritization.21. Ans: 4 Have her hold the clamp or do some other small task to engage her inparticipation. This creates the expectation that she can participate and willeventually handle the equipment. Verbally reexplaining the procedure andproviding written material does reinforce the initial teaching, but being toldwill not help her master the psychomotor aspects. Having a family memberor a staff member take over the procedure does not support the goal of574eventual independence. Focus: Prioritization.22. Ans: 3 Use 10 minutes to determine if Ms. C has an urgent need, but setsome boundaries so that she will know what to expect. Making reference toother clients’ needs is not appropriate. Telling her that she is okay minimizesher concerns. Calling a volunteer might be useful after determining that hersocial needs could be met by a volunteer. Focus: Prioritization.23. Ans: 1 If the hemoglobin level exceeds 10 mg/dL (100 g/L), the medicationshould be discontinued because of the increased risk for serious disorders,such as hypertension, stroke, and myocardial infarction. Focus: Prioritization.24. Ans: 1 Ms. G is demonstrating fear and anxiety related to uncertainty of thefuture. The nurse would first help her to express feelings and decreaseanxiety; then information deficits, decision making, and dealing with bodyimage could be dealt with. Focus: Prioritization.25. Ans: 4 First acknowledge Ms. G's feelings and do additional assessmentabout “things” in order to design interventions. It is natural for her to beanxious about the surgery, but there may be other issues (i.e., problems withfamily, money, work). The other options might be appropriate after thesituation has been assessed. Focus: Prioritization.26. Ans: 2 Clients who have continuous pain should be placed on around-theclockanalgesics. Non-narcotic analgesics or as needed (PRN) narcoticadministration may also be appropriate for situations such as breakthroughpain but are not the best solution for continuous pain. Clients should alwaysbe monitored for respiratory depression, especially if they are opioid naïve;however, this client has advanced cancer, and he is also having postoperativepain, so opioids should not be withheld. Focus: Prioritization.27. Ans: 4 The intramuscular route is rarely used because it is painful andabsorption is uneven. The IV route is frequently used in the immediatepostoperative period, especially for clients who are candidates for PCA. Theoral route is usually preferred if the client can swallow. The rectal route is anoption for those who cannot swallow. Focus: Prioritization.28. Ans: 1 All of these conditions warrant calling the HCP. However, trachealdeviation is a symptom of tension pneumothorax, and the nurse may have tointervene before the HCP can arrive. Decreased urinary output for Mr. B isprobably related to an obstruction, but other causes should be investigated.Dysrhythmias are one sign of tumor lysis syndrome secondary tohyperkalemia. After bowel resection, clients such as Ms. C are at risk forhemorrhage or peritonitis. Focus: Prioritization.29. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 Other signs and symptoms include increased respiratoryrate, increased pulse, and lateral or medial shift in the point of maximumimpulse. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: The nurse must recognizethe signs and symptoms of life-threatening conditions because interventionsneed to be immediately initiated.57530. Ans: 1 For Mr. U, the tension pneumothorax has most likely been inducediatrogenically by the covering of the chest wound. (For clients without openchest wounds, the priority action is performing a needle thoracotomy.)Initiating CPR is inappropriate at this point. Having the crash cart andintubation equipment nearby is a precaution but should not delay otherinterventions. Focus: Prioritization.31. Ans: 2, 1, 4, 3 Using the SBAR format, the nurse first identifies himself orherself, gives the client's name, and describes the current situation. Next,relevant background information, such as the client's diagnosis, medications,and laboratory data, is reported. The assessment includes both clientassessment data that are of concern and the nurse's analysis of the situation.Finally, the nurse makes a recommendation indicating what action he or shethinks is needed. Focus: Prioritization.32. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 Determining what tasks and duties are pending and seekingreplacement coverage are all appropriate. Because she is new, verbalwarnings are appropriate. Any employee could have a personal emergency atany time, so refusing to let her go or expecting disclosure of personal detailswould only be used if her behavior is repetitive. Focus: Supervision,Assignment.33. Ans: 2 This is an opportunity to help the student find her own answer. Helpher to work through her own feelings and to identify the boundaries of thenurse–client relationship. Redirecting the student back to the instructor,acknowledging the student's ability to establish a relationship, and givingdirect advice about how to set boundaries are all possible choices in workingwith students, but not as useful as helping students to identify their own bestpractices. Focus: Supervision.576C A S E S T U D Y 1 2577Gastrointestinal Bleeding578QuestionsMr. S, a 50-year-old man, has driven himself to the emergency department (ED) aftervomiting bright red blood twice within the past 6 hours. He arrives alert andoriented × 3 but appears anxious. He is able to provide only a vague history but admitsto drinking “a few” last weekend. He knows that he is “supposed to stop drinking” andtakes “something for his stomach,” but he cannot recall the name of the medication. Hereports intermittent dizziness and fatigue that has been worsening over the past 2 days.His skin is dry and pale. His abdomen is slightly distended. He reports pain (4 on ascale of 1 to 10) in the midepigastric area. Capillary refill is prolonged, blood pressureis 140/90 mm Hg, pulse rate is 110 beats/min, respiratory rate is 24 breaths/min, andtemperature is 99°F (37.2°C).1. What is the priority nursing concept to consider in planning emergencyinterventions for Mr. S?1. Pain2. Anxiety3. Fluid and electrolyte balance4. Adherence2. What are priority interventions to perform for this patient? Select all thatapply.1. Prepare for endotracheal intubation.2. Assist with central line placement.3. Check stool for occult blood.4. Administer supplemental oxygen.5. Monitor vital signs and oxygen saturation.6. Monitor hemoglobin and hematocrit.3. Which task is most appropriate to delegate to the unlicensed assistivepersonnel (UAP)?1. Repeating measurement of vital signs2. Gathering equipment for nasogastric (NG) tube insertion3. Obtaining the blood glucose level every 2 hours4. Offering ice chips or small sips of water4. The health care provider (HCP) has ordered several immediate (STAT)interventions for Mr. S. Which task would the nurse perform first?1. Draw blood for complete blood count, and type and crossmatch.2. Establish two peripheral IV lines with 16-gauge catheters.5793. Insert an NG tube and observe gastric contents.4. Repeat the vital signs and apply pulse oximeter.5. The nurse is performing additional assessment and history taking for Mr. S.Which finding should be immediately reported to the HCP?1. Melena stools2. History of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug use3. Tense and rigid abdomen4. Risk factors for human immunodeficiency virus6. The HCP prescribes NG tube insertion. The nurse places the patient in a highFowler position, provides an emesis basin, and inspects the nostrils forpatency. List the correct order of actions for this procedure.1. Measure tube from the tip of nose, to the earlobe, to the xiphoid process.2. Insert the lubricated tube into the most patent nostril.3. Ask the patient to sip water as the tube is passed.4. When tube is just above the oropharynx, instruct the patient to bend thechin forward.5. Check pH to verify tube placement; obtain an order for a radiograph._____, _____, _____, _____, _____7. The nurse is selecting personal protective equipment (PPE) to don beforeinserting the NG tube. Which factors will the nurse consider before makingthe selection? Select all that apply.1. Facility policies for procedures2. Likelihood of exposure to blood and body fluids3. Patient's ability and willingness to cooperate4. Own skill level and proficiency at procedure5. Patient's health history and medical conditions6. Availability of PPE at the bedside or on the unit8. Despite the nurse's best efforts at therapeutic communication, Mr. S refuses tocooperate with the NG tube insertion. He threatens to leave “if you stick thattube down my nose.” What should the nurse do first?1. Physically restrain him and insert the tube.2. Explain the “against medical advice” (AMA) form.3. Notify the nursing supervisor and patient advocate.4. Page the HCP and document the attempt.9. After the NG tube is inserted, which assessment finding is cause for greatestconcern?1. The patient reports that the tube is irritating nose and throat feels sore.2. Gastric contents have a coffee-ground appearance.3. The patient demonstrates coughing and cannot speak clearly.5804. Gastric fluid is bright red and has small clots.10. The nurse is most likely to seek out which laboratory results to determine ifthere are untoward effects associated with vomiting, NG suction, or lavage?1. White blood cell (WBC) counts2. Hematocrit and hemoglobin3. Serum electrolytes4. Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine11. The laboratory informs the nurse that the phlebotomist may have mislabeledor drawn the sample for STAT blood tests from another patient, not Mr. S.What should the nurse do first?1. Call the phlebotomist to come back.2. Draw a new blood sample and label it.3. Report the phlebotomist to her or his supervisor.4. Ask the phlebotomist to explain what happened.12. The HCP orders a STAT blood transfusion. In the event of an emergency, atype-specific non–cross-matched blood product could be used. Which bloodproduct could be used in this case?1. O negative2. AB negative3. AB positive4. A negative13. The nurse is preparing to administer a blood transfusion to Mr. S. First, thenurse inspects the bag for leaks, clots, or unusual color and compares the baglabel with the chart and the blood bag forms. Place the steps of transfusion inthe correct order.1. Prime the correct tubing and filter with normal saline.2. Take vital signs before starting the transfusion.3. Transfuse the first 10 mL slowly; monitor the patient closely.4. Have two nurses (or HCPs) compare the blood band identification with thetag on the blood bag.5. Document the outcomes, names of personnel, and starting and endingtimes.6. Repeat vital sign measurement after 15 minutes and then every hour untilthe transfusion is complete._____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____14. The nurse sees that Mr. S's international normalized ratio (INR) value is 2.5.Which action should the nurse take next?1. No action should be taken because this is an expected finding related togastrointestinal bleeding.5812. HCP should be notified for possible prescription of fresh-frozen plasma(FFP).3. Laboratory findings should be reevaluated at completion of treatments.4. The blood bank should be contacted for additional units of packed redblood cells.15. A labor and delivery (L&D) nurse calls the ED charge nurse and says, “Iheard that Mr. S is in the ED throwing up blood. He's my ex-husband, so Ilooked up his medical record. How's he doing?” What should the ED chargenurse do first?1. Invite the L&D nurse down to the ED to see Mr. S in person.2. Ask Mr. S if he wants information released to his ex-wife.3. Report the L&D nurse for violation of patient privacy.4. Explain to the L&D nurse that no information can be given out.16. The nurse is talking to Mr. S about his alcohol consumption. Whichstatement represents the most common defense mechanism that is used bypeople who have problems with alcoholism?1. “You would drink, too, if you were married to my wife.”2. “My wife and I have a couple of beers after work. It's no big deal.”3. “If you think I drink a lot, you should see my wife put it away.”4. “I would rather talk to my wife about this situation when I get home.”17. The nurse suspects that Mr. S may be at risk for alcohol withdrawal effects.What is an early manifestation?1. Startles easily2. Paranoid delusions3. Slurred speech4. Grand mal seizure18. Which serious complications may result from alcohol withdrawal delirium?Select all that apply.1. Myocardial infarction2. Electrolyte imbalance3. Aspiration pneumonia4. Anaphylaxis5. Sepsis6. Suicide19. Mr. S and his wife ask for privacy so that they can talk. Later, when thenurse returns to check on him, the NG tube is on the floor, there is a strongodor of alcohol on Mr. S's breath, and he appears very drowsy. What shouldthe nurse do first?1. Politely ask the wife to leave and call security to check the room for illicit582substances.2. Assess the patient's mental status and ask what happened to the NG tube.3. Explain that his behavior is unacceptable and counterproductive to histherapy.4. Reinsert an NG tube and call the HCP for an order for a STAT bloodalcohol test.20. Mr. S needs to be admitted to the medical-surgical unit for observation andcontinued management of acute gastritis with bleeding. The ED nurse iscalling the receiving nurse on the medical-surgical unit. Prioritize thefollowing information according to the SBAR (situation, background,assessment, recommendation) format.1. “Mr. S is 50 years old. He is a vague historian but admits to drinkingalcohol for several days, and he takes medication for his stomach. He hadintermittent dizziness and fatigue with worsening over the past 2 days. Hedrove himself to the ED after vomiting bright red blood twice within 6hours.”2. “This is Nurse X from the ED. I am calling to give report about Mr. S. He isbeing admitted for acute gastritis with active bleeding.”3. “Mr. S should be monitored for removing the NG tube, drinking alcohol inhis room, and possible alcohol withdrawal. The HCP is considering anesophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD).”4. “Mr. S is currently alert and oriented but is anxious. The last vital signs areblood pressure, 140/80 mm Hg; pulse, 90 beats/min; respirations, 24breaths/min; and pulse oximetry reading, 98% on room air. Pain is 2 of 10in the midepigastric area. He has a 16-gauge peripheral IV line in eachforearm. Normal saline is currently infusing at 60 mL/hr in each IV line. Hereceived one unit of packed red blood cells and one unit of fresh-frozenplasma. He has a NG tube in the right nares. Initially, there was smallamount of bright red blood with a few small clots. Now the NG tube is onlow wall suction.”_____, _____, _____, _____After the SBAR report is completed, Mr. S is prepared for transport to his room on themedical-surgical unit. He is greeted by the medical-surgical nurse who will assumeresponsibility for this care. He is tired but also anxious to see the HCP and to beinformed about the plan of care so that he can “get out of here as soon as possible.”21. The HCP recommends that Mr. S have an EGD to stop the bleeding. Thenurse sees that the HCP has written on the order sheet: “Have patient signconsent form for EGD.” What should the nurse do first?1. Assess the patient's understanding of the procedure, explain the risks, andobtain the patient's signature if he appears to understand.5832. Call the HCP and politely state that obtaining the patient's consent for aprocedure is outside the scope of nursing practice.3. Ask the charge nurse to clarify if HCPs would typically write this type oforder and, if so, how it should be handled.4. Decline to follow the order, write an incident report, and call the unitmanager to report the HCP for writing an inappropriate order.22. During the EGD procedure, Mr. S is given midazolam hydrochloride. Whatis the priority assessment related to this medication?1. Monitor for cardiac dysrhythmias.2. Assess for adequate relief of pain.3. Monitor depth and rate of respirations.4. Assess for relief of nausea and vomiting.23. After the EGD procedure, Mr. S returns to the medical-surgical unit. He isdrowsy but readily arouses to light stimuli. His vital signs are blood pressure,110/74 beats/min; pulse, 82 beats/min; respirations, 20 breaths/min; andtemperature, 99°F (37.2°C). What is the priority intervention?1. Offer cool oral fluids for sore throat.2. Raise the side rails of the bed.3. Apply a small ice pack to the periorbital area.4. Assess the presence of the gag reflex.24. The nurse is talking to Mr. S about self-care measures that he should take toprevent recurrence of acute gastritis. For Mr. S, what is the most importantpoint to emphasize?1. Eat a well-balanced diet that includes protein and carbohydrates.2. Avoid drinking excessive amounts of alcoholic beverages.3. Use caution in taking aspirin, other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs,and corticosteroids.4. Drink at least eight glasses of noncaffeinated fluid each day.25. Which medications does the nurse anticipate including in the dischargeteaching for Mr. S's self-management of gastritis?1. H2-receptor antagonists, proton pump inhibitors, and antacids2. Diuretics, beta-blockers, and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)inhibitors3. Mucolytics, expectorants, and nonopioid antitussives4. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) and bile-acid sequestrants584Answer Key1. Ans: 3 Vomiting of bright red blood is a sign of active bleeding. The patient'sphysical assessment findings and vital sign values are indicative ofphysiologic compensation for blood loss. Pain, anxiety, and adherence can beaddressed after the patient is stabilized. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 4, 5, 6 Use the ABCs (airway, breathing, and circulation) to prioritize.The patient shows no overt signs of respiratory distress; however, there is ahigh risk for hypovolemic shock, and supplemental oxygen should be givenbased on the assumption that the patient has already sustained blood lossand therefore has decreased oxygen-carrying capacity. Vital signs and oxygensaturation should be monitored every 15 minutes for all unstable patients.Hemoglobin and hematocrit are obtained on arrival to establish a baseline forcomparison. The patient does not need endotracheal intubation at this point.In an emergency situation, peripheral IVs are usually established firstbecause central line placement is a sterile procedure that takes more time.Eventually the stool should be checked for occult blood, but the presence orabsence will not affect the emergency treatment decisions. Focus:Prioritization.3. Ans: 1 Repeating vital sign measurements falls within the scope of the UAP'sabilities. The UAP (with training) can obtain blood glucose levels and reportthem; however, there is no indication that blood glucose level should bechecked every 2 hours. Gathering certain types of equipment can bedelegated; however, for NG tube insertion, the UAP would need an itemizedlist. The UAP should not be instructed to give ice chips or sips of water. It islikely that the HCP will order oral food/fluid restrictions because of vomitingand to facilitate decompression of the stomach and for possible diagnostictesting. Focus: Delegation.4. Ans: 2 The priority for this patient is fluid loss and potential for hypovolemicshock, so the nurse would insert two large-bore peripheral IVs. (Note tostudent: In clinical, you may see experienced nurses drawing blood fromnewly inserted peripheral IVs catheters before IV fluid is started; however,drawing blood is not the priority concern.) NG tube is an important part ofthe therapy for this patient, but it is not considered a life-preserving measure.Repeat vital signs and application of the pulse oximeter are needed. This canbe delegated, but the UAP must be instructed to report all values so that thenurse can monitor trends. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 3 A tense, rigid abdomen could signal perforation, peritonitis, or aworsening hemorrhage. The other findings are relevant but are lessimmediately urgent. Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 3, 5 The patient is placed in high Fowler position to preventaspiration. The length is measured for tip placement into the stomach. Gently585insert the tube into the most patent nostril. When the tube is just above theoropharynx, have the patient tip the chin down and then gently advance thetube. When the tip reaches the posterior pharynx, have the patient sip water.Swallowing closes the epiglottis and helps to prevent tracheal intubation.Checking placement is essential before instilling any fluids or medications.Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 The facility should have policies for procedures. For example,gloves, a gown, and an eye shield might be part of the protocol. (Note tostudent: You may see nurses only wearing gloves for NG tube insertion; thismay or may not be a violation of their facility policy.) The likelihood ofexposure to blood or body fluids is increased by patient behaviors, such aspulling the tube out or thrashing movements and by nurse's skill level (e.g.,unskilled attempts increase gagging, vomiting, coughing, and sneezing;repeated attempts increase saliva, tears, and mucus production). The patient'shealth history (e.g., tuberculosis or other respiratory disorders) may promptthe nurse to don a filter mask. For Mr. S, the nurse may opt to wear shoecovers because he reports vomiting blood. The availability of PPE should notbe a deciding factor. In the case of NG tube insertion, the urgency does notoutweigh the time it would take to obtain the proper equipment to maintainpersonal safety. Focus: Prioritization.8. Ans: 4 Page the HCP and document actions. The HCP may opt to orderrestraints if the patient cannot make safe decisions. The HCP may try toconvince the patient to agree to the therapy or have the patient sign an AMAform if he continues to refuse treatment. The nursing supervisor and thepatient advocate can be notified if the situation escalates. Focus:Prioritization.9. Ans: 3 Coughing and an inability to speak or difficulty in speaking clearlysuggests that the tube has been inserted into the trachea. The tube should beremoved immediately. Bright red blood with clots indicates active bleeding;this finding verifies the patient's initial history and should be immediatelyreported to the HCP so that therapy can begin. Coffee-ground appearance ofgastric contents indicates old blood; this finding should also be reported butis less urgent. Irritation of the throat and around the nares is commonlyreported. Perform hygiene around the nares as needed; irritation of the throatusually subsides, but an anesthetic throat spray may offer some temporaryrelief. Focus: Prioritization.10. Ans: 3 The nurse always monitors all laboratory results, but vomiting, NGsuction, and lavage (if it is ordered) are most likely to cause fluid andelectrolyte imbalances. Fluid loss can cause hemoconcentration and causeartificially elevated levels for hematocrit, hemoglobin, and BUN. BUN isgenerally more affected by fluid loss than serum creatinine. The WBC countcould be elevated because of stress, inflammation, or infection. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Use concept-based learning to recognize thatvomiting, suctioning, and lavage share a common effect: altering fluid and586electrolyte balance.11. Ans: 2 To expedite the STAT order, the nurse would draw the specimen. Theother options will only delay the STAT order. After Mr. S's condition isstabilized, tracking down the cause of the error will help prevent recurrences.Focus: Prioritization, Supervision.12. Ans: 1 In a medical emergency, the patient can receive O-negative blood. Anantibody reaction could result if type A or B blood is administered withouttyping and cross matching. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 4, 1, 2, 3, 6, 5 Inspect the bag. If the product appears unusable or if thebag is damaged, contact the blood bank for another unit. Checking labelsagainst the original prescription and blood bank forms is essential. At thebedside, two licensed professionals should compare the bag andidentification band. (Note: Priming of the tubing and filter could be done anytime before starting the transfusion. In an emergency situation, equipmentpreparation can be done while waiting for the unit to come from the bloodbank.) Measuring vital signs immediately before starting the transfusionprovides a baseline in case of transfusion reaction. An acute reaction is mostlikely to result with transfusion of a small amount blood (or within 15minutes). A delayed reaction may occur several days after the transfusion.Frequent measurement of vital signs (according to hospital policy) andcomplete documentation are standard requirements. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 2 FFP can be used to replace the coagulation factors. This patient has ahistory of alcohol abuse and may have liver disease, and the liver producesprothrombin and other blood clotting factors. The INR should be 1.1 orbelow. A higher than normal INR indicates that blood clotting will be slowerthan expected. For anticoagulation therapy, the therapeutic range is 2.0 to 3.5(depending on the purpose of therapy, such as deep vein thrombosisprophylaxis or prosthetic valve prophylaxis). Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 4 Even if the L&D nurse is employed by the hospital, only staffmembers who provide direct care should have access to medical records andpatient information. It is inappropriate to invite the L&D nurse to visit thepatient. There should be some investigation as to how the L&D nurse foundout that the patient was in the ED. If an ED staff member is giving outinformation about patients, that employee needs to be reminded of theconsequences. There should also be some report on the behavior of the L&Dnurse. Possibly, more safeguards are needed for computer access to records.The L&D nurse also needs to be reminded of the consequences of obtainingthese medical records. Possibly, her or his license could be revoked orsuspended or have sanctions placed on it. Focus: Prioritization.16. Ans: 2 Denial is the most common defense mechanism seen amongsubstance abusers. Option 1 represents rationalization, or giving reasons forbehavior. Option 3 represents projection, which is a transfer of unacceptablebehavior onto others. Option 4 represents suppression, which is a conscious587awareness of and avoidance of dealing with the problem. Focus:Prioritization.17. Ans: 1 Watch for signs of neurologic irritability (e.g., psychological [anxiety,jumpiness, or nervousness] and physical [fine tremors, tachycardia,diaphoresis]). Delusions and seizure are later signs. Slurred speech is morefrequently associated with alcohol intoxication. Focus: Prioritization; TestTaking Tip: In studying for the NCLEX Examination, make note of the earlysigns and symptoms of disease processes. Detecting early symptoms is animportant part of ensuring safe care.18. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 Death can occur from myocardial infarction, fat embolism,peripheral vascular disease, aspiration pneumonia, electrolyte imbalance,sepsis, or suicide. Anaphylaxis would not ordinarily occur unless the patientwas allergic to one of the treatments (e.g., drug allergy). Focus: Prioritization.19. Ans: 2 First assess the patient and try to determine exactly what occurred.Based on the assessment findings, the other options may be used. Focus:Prioritization.20. Ans: 2, 1, 4, 3 Situation: Identify self, location, and purpose ofcommunication. Background: Include relevant information that providescontext for the problems or concerns. Assessment: Include current data thatare directly related to care. Recommendations: Suggest actions that areneeded for follow up and highlight issues that might evolve over time. Focus:Prioritization.21. Ans: 2 The best response is to politely and firmly state that the action isoutside the scope of nursing practice. Support from the charge nurse wouldbe nice, but if the HCPs typically expect the nurses to have the consent formsigned, then the nurse still has to decide whether to go along with the unitnorms or to act according to own ethical beliefs and personal understandingof scope of practice. Assessing the patient's understanding is always useful,and if the patient does not understand, then the HCP would have to return tospeak with the patient. Declining to follow the order, writing an incidentreport, and calling the unit manager are viable options, but trying to directlyresolve the issue with the HCP would expedite the patient's care. Focus:Prioritization.22. Ans: 3 Midazolam hydrochloride is commonly used for proceduresrequiring moderate sedation. Depression of depth and rate of respirations is apossible side effect. Focus: Prioritization.23. Ans: 4 During the EGD procedure, a local anesthetic is sprayed into thethroat. This makes the passage of the tube less uncomfortable for the patient;however, it also depresses the gag reflex. Food and fluids should be helduntil the gag reflex returns to reduce the risk of aspiration. A sore throat isexpected for a few days and is treated with throat lozenges and cool fluids.The side rails are up during the recovery period but are generally consideredas a form of restraints. HCP must prescribe restraints for use on the medical-588surgical unit. Periorbital bruising may occur in a few patients but shouldresolve spontaneously after several days. Focus: Prioritization; Test TakingTip: Generally, the priorities for postprocedure care for invasive proceduresare based on the ABCs (airway, breathing, and circulation). In this case,assessing for the gag reflex is part of airway management.24. Ans: 2 All the teaching points are relevant for self-management of gastritis,but based on the patient's history and the possible use of alcohol even in thehospital, it would appear that Mr. S may have the greatest difficulty inavoiding alcohol consumption. Focus: Prioritization.25. Ans: 1 H2-receptor antagonists, proton pump inhibitors, and antacids aretypical medications used to manage gastritis and other gastrointestinaldisorders that are aggravated by excessive gastric acid. Diuretics, betablockers,and ACE inhibitors would be used for hypertension. Mucolytics,expectorants, and nonopioid antitussives are used for symptom relief ofallergic rhinitis, cough, or colds. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (commonlyreferred to as statins) and bile-acid sequestrants are used for cholesterolmanagement. Focus: Prioritization.589C A S E S T U D Y 1 3590Head and Leg Trauma and Shock591QuestionsMs. A, a 20-year-old college student who had been drinking at a fraternity party beforeshe fell from a second-floor balcony, has just arrived in the emergency department(ED). A fellow college student who accompanies Ms. A tells the triage nurse, “She wascompletely knocked out right after the fall. But then she woke up a little, so we thoughtshe was okay—until she stopped moving again.”When the nurse assesses Ms. A, there is no response to commands or to having hername called. Her eyes are shut, and she does not open them even when the nurseapplies nail bed pressure. Her pupils are unequal, with the right pupil larger than theleft. Ms. A's blood pressure is 70/30 mm Hg, she is in a sinus bradycardia with a rate of40 beats/min, and her respiratory rate is 6 breaths/min. Her respirations are irregular,and she has 20-second periods of apnea. She has a large occipital laceration, and her leftleg is misaligned.The paramedics have a cervical collar and backboard in place. A 16-gauge catheterhas been inserted at the left antecubital area, and lactated Ringer's solution is infusingat 150 mL/hr.1. Which additional assessment information is most important to obtain at thistime?1. Temperature2. Breath sounds3. Pedal pulses4. Oxygen saturation2. Which is the best way to clearly document Ms. A's level of consciousness?1. Client is comatose.2. Client is unresponsive.3. Client's Glasgow Coma Scale score is 4.4. Client has a decreased level of consciousness.3. The nurse notes that Ms. A has abnormal movement when pressure is appliedto her nail beds, as shown in the illustration. What is the best way todocument this finding?5921. Extensor rigidity2. Decorticate posturing3. Decerebrate posturing4. Traumatic brain injury4. Based on Ms. A's history, vital signs, and assessment data, the client is mostat risk for which types of shock? Select all that apply.1. Cardiogenic2. Hypovolemic3. Neurogenic4. Septic5. Anaphylactic5. A new medical resident is working in the ED today. Which action by theresident indicates a need for immediate intervention by the nurse?1. Assessing for the Babinski sign2. Increasing the IV infusion rate to 200 mL/hr3. Ordering an electrocardiogram (ECG)4. Preparing to perform a lumbar puncture6. What is the best approach by the nurse when communicating concerns aboutthe medical resident's decision making?1. Call the medical resident's supervisor about the concerns.2. Ask the nursing supervisor to discuss appropriate care with the medicalresident.3. Tell the medical resident that lumbar puncture may cause brainstemherniation.4. Explain that lumbar puncture is not within the medical resident's scope ofpractice.7. Which staff member will be best to assign to take primary responsibility for593Ms. A's ongoing care?1. RN from a temporary agency with extensive previous emergencyexperience who has been working in this ED for 3 days2. LPN/LVN with 10 years of experience in the ED who is in the last semesterof an RN program3. RN who has worked in the ED for the past 5 years after transferring fromthe mother and baby unit4. RN who has 12 years of intensive care unit experience and has floated tothe ED today8. Ms. A suddenly begins to vomit. Which action should the nurse take first?1. Use the backboard to log-roll Ms. A to her side.2. Suction Ms. A's airway with a Yankauer suction device.3. Hyperoxygenate Ms. A with a bag-valve mask system.4. Insert a nasogastric tube and connect to low suction.9. The health care provider (HCP) prescribes these actions. Which action will thenurse take first?1. Notify family members of Ms. A's admission.2. Obtain computed tomography (CT) scan of head.3. Clean the occipital laceration and apply a dressing.4. Infuse famotidine 20 mg IV every 12 hours.The results of laboratory tests that were performed when Ms. A arrived in the ED arefaxed to the RN. Complete blood count results are as follows:Hematocrit 42% (0.42)Hemoglobin level 12.6 g/dL (126 g/L)Platelet count 200,000/mm3 (200 × 109/L)White blood cell count 7500/mm3 (7.5 × 109/L)The metabolic profile shows the following:Blood urea nitrogen level 13 mg/dL (4.64 mmol/L)Chloride level 102 mEq/L (102 mmol/L)Creatinine level 0.7 mg/dL (61.88 μmol/L)Glucose level 144 mg/dL (7.99 mmol/L)Magnesium level 1.7 mEq/L (0.85 mmol/L)Potassium level 4.1 mEq/L (4.1 mmol/L)Sodium level 133 mEq/L (133 mmol/L)Arterial blood gas results are as follows:Arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide (Paco2) 56 mm Hg (7.45 kPa)Arterial partial pressure of oxygen (Pao2) 65 mm Hg (8.64 kPa)Bicarbonate ( )22 mEq/L (22 mmol/L)O2 saturation 88% (0.88)pH 7.310. Based on the laboratory values, which collaborative intervention will the594nurse anticipate next?1. Type and cross-match for 3 units of packed red blood cells.2. Administer magnesium sulfate 1 g IV over the next 3 hours.3. Give insulin aspart dose based on the standard sliding scale.4. Obtain an endotracheal intubation tray and assist with intubation.After being intubated and placed on mechanical ventilation, Ms. A is transported tothe radiology department. The CT scans indicate that she has a large epiduralhematoma. In addition, chest and left leg radiographs show that she has a left femurfracture and evidence of aspiration pneumonia.When the nurse reassesses Ms. A, she is flaccid and has no response to verbal orpainful stimulation. Her pupils are dilated and nonreactive to light. Vital sign valuesare:Blood pressure 190/40 mm HgHeart rate 40 beats/min (sinus bradycardia)O2 saturation 92% (0.92)Respiratory rate 14 breaths/min (ventilator controlled)Temperature 96°F (35.6°C) (tympanic)11. Which complication is the nurse most concerned about at present?1. Brainstem herniation2. Respiratory acidosis3. Hemorrhage4. HypothermiaMs. A is transported to the operating room, where the epidural hematoma is evacuatedand an open reduction and internal fixation of her left leg fracture is completed.After surgery, Ms. A is transferred to the intensive care unit. She is attached to acardiac monitor and has an arterial line in place. She is making no spontaneousrespiratory effort but is being mechanically ventilated. Ms. A's indwelling urinarycatheter is draining large amounts of clear, pale yellow urine. An intracranial monitoris in place. Her vital sign values and intracranial pressure (ICP) are as follows:Blood pressure 112/64 mm Hg (mean arterial pressure [MAP], 80 mm Hg)Heart rate 50 to 56 beats/min (sinus bradycardia)ICP 22 mm Hg (reference range, 5–15 mm Hg)O2 saturation 93% (0.93)Respiratory rate 20 breaths/min (ventilator controlled)Temperature 97.4°F (36.3°C) (tympanic)12. Which of the assessment data listed above requires the most immediatenursing action?1. Cardiac rhythm5952. Blood pressure3. O2 saturation4. ICP13. Which of these interventions will be used to meet the goal of maintainingMs. A's cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) at 60 mm Hg or more? Select allthat apply.1. Keep the head of the bed elevated 30 degrees.2. Check pupil reaction to light every hour.3. Reposition the client at least every 2 hours.4. Perform endotracheal suctioning as necessary.5. Check Glasgow Coma Scale score hourly.6. Administer mannitol 100 mg IV if ICP is above 20 mm Hg.7. Titrate norepinephrine drip to maintain MAP above 80 mm Hg.14. The postcraniotomy care plan for the first postoperative day includes thesenursing actions. Which actions can the nurse assign to an experiencedLPN/LVN working in the intensive care unit? Select all that apply.1. Checking the gastric pH every 4 hours2. Performing a neurologic status examination every 2 hours3. Assessing breath sounds every 4 hours4. Turning the client side to side every 2 hours5. Monitoring intake and output hourly6. Sending a urine specimen to check specific gravity dailyArterial blood gas values are as follows:Paco2 25 mm Hg (3.33 kPa)Pao2 90 mm Hg (11.97 kPa)20 mEq/L (20 mmol/L)O2 saturation 96% (0.96)pH 7.5415. Which parameter indicates a need for an immediate change in the ventilatorsettings?1. Paco22. O2 saturation3.4. Pao216. Using the SBAR (situation, background, assessment, recommendations)format, in which order will the nurse communicate this information about the596client to the HCP?1. “I am concerned that Ms. A may develop worsening cerebral hypoxiacaused by cerebral vasoconstriction and I would like to decrease therespiratory rate setting on the ventilator.”2. “This is the nurse caring for Ms. A. The client's most recent arterial bloodgases (ABGs) indicate that her Paco2 is too low, possibly worsening hercerebral perfusion.”3. “Her current ventilator respiratory rate is set at 20, and ABGs show thePaco2 is 25 mm Hg (3.33 kPa), with a pH of 7.54. O2 saturation is 96% (0.96)with Pao2 of 90 mm Hg (11.97 kPa).”4. “Ms. A is a 20-year-old woman who had evacuation of an epiduralhematoma and has been nonresponsive and ventilator dependent sincesurgery.”17. The LPN/LVN reports that Ms. A's output for the past hour was 1200 mLand that her urine is very pale yellow. Which action is best for the nurse totake at this time?1. Instruct the LPN/LVN to continue to monitor the urine output hourly.2. Send a urine specimen to the laboratory to check specific gravity.3. Notify the neurosurgeon and anticipate an increase in the IV rate.4. Assess the client's neurologic status for signs of increased irritability.18. Ms. A's mother, who has been staying at the bedside, asks the nurse why herdaughter is receiving omeprazole, stating that her daughter has no history ofpeptic ulcers. Which answer is best?1. “Omeprazole will lower the chance that she will aspirate.”2. “Omeprazole decreases the incidence of gastric stress ulcers.”3. “Omeprazole will reduce the risk for gastroesophageal reflux.”4. “Omeprazole prevents gastric irritation caused by the orogastric tube.”19. About 20 minutes after Ms. A is positioned on her right side, her ICP hasincreased to 30 mm Hg. Which action should the nurse take next?1. Administer the as needed (PRN) mannitol 100 mg IV.2. Assess the alignment of Ms. A's head and neck.3. Elevate the head of the bed to 45 degrees.4. Check Ms. A's pupil size and response to light.20. When the nurse assesses Ms. A at 2:00 pm, her left leg is pale, swollen, andvery firm to palpation. The left leg pulses are only faintly audible using aDoppler pulse monitor. Which action is most appropriate at this time?1. Call the orthopedic surgeon to communicate the assessment.2. Elevate the left leg on two pillows to decrease the swelling.3. Continue to monitor the left leg's appearance and pedal pulses.4. Assess the client for indications of pain, such as restlessness.59721. As the shift ends, the nurse is preparing Ms. A for transfer to surgery for anemergency fasciotomy. What is the best option for obtaining informedconsent for the fasciotomy?1. Informed consent is not needed for emergency surgery.2. Permission for surgery can be given by Ms. A's mother.3. Consent for surgery is not required for unconscious clients.4. Authorization can be given by the nursing supervisor.598Answer Key1. Ans: 4 National guidelines for the emergency management of traumatic braininjury indicate that the assessment of airway and breathing is the priorityaction for this client. Ms. A's slow and irregular respiratory rate is a riskfactor for hypoxemia, which would decrease oxygen delivery to the brain aswell as other vital organs and tissues. The other assessment informationshould also be obtained quickly because Ms. A is at risk for hypothermia,blood loss associated with a possible left leg fracture, and aspiration. Focus:Prioritization.2. Ans: 3 The Glasgow Coma Scale offers a standardized and objective way toassess and document neurologic status. Although the other responses alsoaccurately describe the client's level of consciousness, they do not provideobjective data that can be readily used to determine changes in the client'sneurologic status. Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 3 Decerbrate posturing includes stiff extension of the arms and legs,plantar flexion of the feet, and arm pronation and usually indicates brainstemdysfunction. Documenting extensor rigidity alone would be an incompletedescription of the client's assessment. Decorticate posturing involves flexionand internal rotation of the arms. The client clearly does have a traumaticbrain injury, but a clear description of the baseline assessment by the nurse isneeded. Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 2, 3 Ms. A's bradycardia and hypotension suggest that she isexperiencing neurogenic shock in response to her head injury. It is alsoimportant to remember that with any traumatic injury, hypovolemic shockcaused by hemorrhage should be considered. In this case, Ms. A should beassessed for blood loss associated with her leg injury and for internalbleeding caused by blunt trauma to her chest and abdomen. There are noindications in the client's history that she is at risk for cardiac, septic, oranaphylactic shock. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 4 Lumbar puncture is contraindicated in a client who may haveincreased ICP because it increases the risk for herniation of the brainstemthrough the foramen magnum at the base of the skull. Checking for a positiveBabinski sign and obtaining an ECG are not priorities for this client butwould not place the client at any increased risk. Increasing the IV rate isappropriate based on the client's blood pressure. Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 3 The Core Competencies for Interprofessional Collaborative Practiceindicate that professionals should clearly express knowledge and opinionsabout client care in order to ensure common understanding of information,treatment, and care decisions. In this situation, the nurse needs to rapidly andclearly communicate with the resident to prevent injury to the client. Callingthe resident's supervisor or asking the nursing supervisor to intervene may599also be appropriate, but a more direct approach is best in the currentsituation. The resident will be familiar with medical scope of practice. Focus:Prioritization.7. Ans: 3 The initial care of clients with traumatic injuries requires the expertiseof an RN with extensive ED experience. Neither the agency RN nor the floatRN will be familiar with the location of equipment and with the organizationof care in the ED. Although the LPN has experience, the LPN/LVN scope ofpractice does not include the complex assessments and interventions that willbe needed in caring for this client. (The LPN could be assigned to assist theRN caring for Ms. A.) Focus: Assignment.8. Ans: 1 The most important goal for an unconscious client who is vomiting isto prevent aspiration. Turning Ms. A to her side (while maintaining cervicalspine stability through the use of the backboard and cervical collar) is the bestmethod to ensure that she does not aspirate. Suctioning would also beutilized but does not clear the airway as well as having the client positionedon her side. Hyperoxygenation may also be required for this client but willnot protect the airway while she is vomiting. A nasogastric tube is usually notinserted in clients with possible facial fractures. Insertion of an orogastrictube may be indicated but would not protect from aspiration at the presenttime. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Remember that maintenance ofthe airway and prevention of aspiration will be a priority for any client whohas a decreased level of consciousness.9. Ans: 2 National advanced trauma life support guidelines indicate that a CTscan should be done as soon as possible after a closed head injury todetermine the extent and types of injury and guide interventions, such assurgery. The other actions are also appropriate for the client but do not needimplementation as rapidly. Focus: Prioritization.10. Ans: 4 Ms. A's ABG results indicate uncompensated respiratory acidosis andhypoxemia. Because her respiratory drive is suppressed, she will need rapidintubation and ventilation using a mechanical positive-pressure ventilator.She may need surgery, in which case it would be appropriate to have bloodavailable in the blood bank. Although ongoing monitoring of the magnesiumlevel is indicated, the magnesium level is in the low-normal range, soadministration of magnesium is not a priority at this time. Insulin would nottypically be administered for a small glucose elevation such as this in anonfasting client. Focus: Prioritization.11. Ans: 1 The client's fixed and dilated pupils, widened pulse pressure, andbradycardia are caused by increasing pressure on the brainstem and indicatethat she is at risk for brainstem herniation, which would result in brain death.Immediate surgical intervention is needed to prevent this complication. She isat risk for the other complications, but they are not as life threatening. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Although pupil dilation is associated withincreases in ICP, remember that this is usually a late sign. You will want tomonitor carefully for earlier signs of increased ICP, such as subtle changes in600memory, orientation, and responsiveness, and communicate these changesquickly to the HCP.12. Ans: 4 Normal ICP is 0 to 15 mm Hg, and CPP should be at least 60 mm Hgor higher. CPP is calculated using the formula MAP − ICP = CPP. Ms. A'sCPP is 58 mm Hg (80 − 22 = 58); interventions should be implementedimmediately to decrease her ICP and improve CPP. The other data indicate aneed for ongoing monitoring but do not require immediate intervention.Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 1, 6, 7 Evidence-based guidelines recommend the use of mannitol inclients who have traumatic brain injury with increased ICP to reduce ICP andimprove CPP. In hypotensive clients, cerebral perfusion may also beimproved by administering vasopressors to raise arterial pressure.Positioning the head of the bed at 30 degrees also reduces cerebral edema bypromoting venous drainage from the cerebral circulation. Althoughneurologic assessments such as checking the Glasgow Coma Scale score andobserving pupil reaction to light are necessary, the stimulation caused bythese interventions can increase ICP. Suctioning and repositioning also causetransient increases in ICP. It is important to monitor intracranial and arterialpressures during these procedures and modify care to avoid unnecessaryincreases in ICP. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 1, 5, 6 Checking gastric pH, monitoring intake and output, andobtaining urine specimens are included in LPN/LVN education and scope ofpractice. An experienced LPN/LVN would be expected to report any changesin client status to the supervising RN. Usually repositioning a client wouldalso be included in the LPN/LVN role; however, this client is at risk forincreased ICP during positioning and should be monitored by the RN duringand after repositioning. Assessments of breath sounds and neurologic statusin critically ill clients should be accomplished by an experienced RN. Focus:Assignment.15. Ans: 1 Lower-than-normal Paco2 levels cause cerebral vasoconstriction andresult in further cerebral hypoxia. The RN should notify the HCP andanticipate a decrease in the ventilator rate. The oxygen percentage beingdelivered by the ventilator should be evaluated because a lower fraction ofinspired oxygen (Fio2) may be adequate. However, the current Pao2 will nothave any adverse effect on cerebral perfusion. The decrease inreflects a compensatory mechanism for the client's respiratory alkalosis andwill resolve spontaneously when the Pao2 level rises. Focus: Prioritization;Test Taking Tip: When analyzing ABGs, always consider both oxygenation(using Pao2 and oxygen saturation) and acid-base balance (using pH, Paco2,and ). Even if the client's oxygenation is adequate, disorders in acidbasebalance may lead to poor outcomes.16. Ans: 2, 4, 3, 1 Using the SBAR format, the nurse first describes the primaryconcern (situation) and then provides background information about the601client. Next, the nurse discusses pertinent assessment data. Finally,recommendations for needed changes in the treatment plan arecommunicated. Focus: Prioritization.17. Ans: 3 Ms. A's high urine output suggests that she has developed diabetesinsipidus, a common complication of intracranial surgery. Because diabetesinsipidus can rapidly lead to dehydration in a client who is unable to take inoral fluids, the priority action needed is to increase the IV rate. Continuing tomonitor the output and checking the specific gravity would also be neededbut would not correct the risk for hypovolemia and hypotension. Because Ms.A's neurologic status is so poor, it is unlikely that changes in her neurologicstatus would be helpful in determining the effects of fluid and electrolyteimbalance. Focus: Prioritization.18. Ans: 2 Gastric stress ulcers are a common complication of head injury unlesshistamine2 (H2) blockers (e.g., famotidine) or proton pump inhibitors (e.g.,omeprazole) are administered prophylactically. Administration ofomeprazole may decrease the risk of pneumonitis if aspiration occurs,minimize the effects of gastroesophageal reflux, and decrease stomachirritation, but none of the other responses addresses the use of proton pumpinhibitors in clients with head injury. Focus: Prioritization.19. Ans: 2 Because the client has just been repositioned, it is likely that theelevated ICP is caused by poor positioning. The head and neck should bemaintained in good alignment because neck flexion can cause venousobstruction and an increase in ICP. Administration of mannitol and furtherelevation of the head of the bed may be needed if repositioning Ms. A's headand neck is ineffective. However, these measures should be used only if herMAP is high enough to maintain a CPP of 60 mm Hg. Checking Ms. A'spupils would not offer any additional information, and the stimulation mayincrease the ICP. Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 1 The assessment data suggest the development of compartmentsyndrome, an emergency that can lead to permanent neuromuscular damagewithin 4 to 6 hours without rapid treatment. Elevation of the leg will furtherreduce blood flow to the leg. Continuing to monitor the leg withoutcorrecting the compartment syndrome will allow the ischemia to persist.Although restlessness may indicate pain in clients with intact neurologicfunction, Ms. A's neurologic status is severely compromised, and monitoringfor restlessness will not be helpful in assessing for ischemic leg pain. Focus:Prioritization.21. Ans: 2 When a client is unable to provide informed consent for a procedure,a close family member (who is likely to be most knowledgeable about theclient's wishes) is able to give permission. Emergency procedures can takeplace without written consent for an unconscious or incompetent client whenno family or legal representative is available to give permission. The nursingsupervisor does not have the authority to consent to surgery for anunconscious client. Focus: Prioritization.602C A S E S T U D Y 1 4603Septic Shock604QuestionsMs. D, a 54-year-old patient, is brought to the emergency department by her daughterbecause of weakness and a decreasing level of consciousness. The daughter says thatMs. D has been reporting nausea, with associated abdominal and back pain. Althoughusually Ms. D is very alert and oriented, today she has been increasingly lethargic.Her medical history includes hypertension, atrial fibrillation, and diabetes mellitustype 2.The initial vital sign values are as follows:Blood pressure 102/38 mm HgHeart rate 102 beats/minO2 saturation 76% (0.76)Respiratory rate 30 breaths/minTemperature 102.4°F (39.1°C)1. Based on the initial history and assessment, which action prescribed by thehealth care provider (HCP) will the nurse implement first?1. Insert a Foley catheter and monitor urine output hourly.2. Start oxygen and maintain oxygen saturation at 90% or higher.3. Place the patient on a cardiac monitor.4. Check the blood glucose level.2. Which method of oxygen administration will be best to increase Ms. D'soxygen saturation?1. Nasal cannula2. Nonrebreather mask3. Venturi mask4. Simple face mask3. Available staffing in the emergency department includes an experiencedunlicensed assistive personnel (UAP). Which actions should the nursedelegate to the UAP? Select all that apply.1. Measuring vital signs every 15 minutes2. Attaching the patient to a cardiac monitor3. Documenting a head-to-toe assessment4. Checking orientation and alertness5. Inserting an IV line6. Monitoring urine output hourly4. The cardiac monitor shows this rhythm.Routine treatment orders for dysrhythmias are in the emergency department605protocols. Which action should the nurse take next?1. Continue to monitor cardiac rhythm.2. Administer metoprolol 5 mg IV push.3. Prepare to perform cardioversion at 50 J.4. Administer amiodarone 150 mg IV push.Arterial blood gas (ABG) analysis is performed, and the following results are obtained:Arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide (Paco2) 62 mm Hg (8.25 kPa)Arterial partial pressure of oxygen (Pao2) 50 mm Hg (6.65 kPa)Bicarbonate (HCO3−) 22 mEq/L (22 mmol/L)O2 saturation 82% (0.82)pH 7.235. Based on analysis of the ABG values, which collaborative intervention willthe nurse anticipate next?1. Sodium bicarbonate bolus IV2. Endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation3. Continuous monitoring of Ms. D's respiratory status4. Nebulized albuterol therapy6. When the nurse is preparing to assist with endotracheal intubation of Ms. D,in which order will these actions be accomplished?1. Use capnography to check for exhaled carbon dioxide.2. Secure the endotracheal tube in place.3. Preoxygenate with bag-valve mask device at 100% oxygen.4. Inflate the endotracheal tube cuff.5. Obtain all needed equipment and supplies.6. Insert the endotracheal tube orally through the vocal cords._____, _____, _____, _____, _____, _____606After the successful intubation, the nurse performs a rapid assessment of Ms. D anddocuments the findings: “Apical pulse irregularly irregular. Face flushed and warm.Extremities cool and mottled. Breath sounds audible bilaterally with crackles present inlung bases. Reports pain with suprapubic palpation. Urine is amber and cloudy, withred streaks. 100 mL urine output when Foley catheter inserted.”The patient's current vital sign values and capillary blood glucose are as follows:Blood pressure 86/40 mm HgHeart rate 102 beats/minO2 saturation 93% (0.93)Respiratory rate 32 breaths/minTemperature 103°F (39.4°C)Capillary blood glucose 167 mg/dL (9.27 mmol/L)7. Which data collected about this patient are most important in alerting thenurse to a diagnosis of sepsis and systemic inflammatory response syndrome(SIRS)? Select all that apply.1. Hematuria2. Atrial fibrillation3. Temperature4. Apical pulse rate5. Blood glucose level6. Respiratory rate8. Based on the assessment data and vital signs, which collaborative actionsshould the nurse anticipate at this time? Select all that apply.1. Send specimens for blood and urine culture.2. Start norepinephrine infusion at 8 mcg/min.3. Give normal saline bolus of 30 mL/kg.4. Draw blood for serum lactate level.5. Administer vancomycin 1 g IV.9. When the nurse is infusing the normal saline, which action is most importantin evaluating for an adverse reaction to the rapid fluid infusion?1. Palpating for any peripheral edema2. Monitoring urine output3. Listening to lung sounds4. Checking for jugular venous distentionAfter infusion of the normal saline bolus, Ms. D's blood pressure is 92/42 mm Hg.Lactate level is elevated at 36.04 mg/dL (4 mmol/L). Norepinephrine infusion isprescribed at 8 mcg/min, and infusion is started through a peripheral IV line.60710. When assessing the norepinephrine infusion site, the nurse notes that theskin around the IV insertion site is cool and pale. Which action should betaken first?1. Shut off the infusion pump.2. Assess for pain at the site.3. Notify the HCP about the possible norepinephrine extravasation.4. Inject the pale area with phentolamine solution per hospital protocol.11. The nurse is preparing to transfer Ms. D to the intensive care unit (ICU).Using SBAR (situation, background, assessment, recommendations) format,in what order will the nurse communicate pertinent information about Ms. Dto the ICU nurse?1. “Current blood pressure is 92/42, pulse rate 112, and respirations 32.Capillary blood glucose is 167 mg/dL (9.27 mmol/L), and lactate level is36.04 mg/dL (4 mmol/L). Blood and urine cultures are pending.”2. “The patient has diabetes and chronic atrial fibrillation. She has beenexperiencing nausea, abdominal pain, and back pain. Today she was notedto be increasingly lethargic.”3. “Ms. D will need a central line insertion for fluid and vasopressormanagement, along with titration of norepinephrine and normal saline tomaintain mean arterial pressure at 65 mm Hg.”4. “Ms. D is ready to transfer to intensive care. She has septic shock and isreceiving mechanical ventilation, norepinephrine drip, and normal salineinfusion through a peripheral line.”_____, _____, _____, _____Ms. D is transferred to the ICU, and a two-port central IV line is started at thesubclavian site to infuse fluids and norepinephrine.12. The intensive care nurse is working with an experienced LPN/LVN in caringfor Ms. D. Which nursing activities included in the care plan should beassigned to the LPN/LVN? Select all that apply.1. Documenting the hourly urinary output2. Monitoring the central line site for signs of infection3. Checking capillary blood glucose levels every 2 hours4. Completing a head-to-toe assessment every 4 hours5. Administering sliding-scale insulin lispro per protocol6. Infusing normal saline at 400 mL/hrAfter 2 hours, the values for vital signs are as follows:608Blood pressure 104/56 mm HgHeart rate 104 beats/min (atrial fibrillation)O2 saturation 92% (0.92)Central venous pressure 3 mm HgRespiratory rate 26 breaths/minTemperature 101.6°F (38.7°C) (rectal)13. Which information about Ms. D is most important for the nurse tocommunicate rapidly to the HCP?1. Decreased blood pressure2. Ongoing atrial fibrillation3. Low central venous pressure4. Continued temperature elevation14. Which of these actions prescribed by the HCP will be most important for thenurse to question?1. Increase oxygen flow rate (Fio2).2. Raise normal saline rate to 450 mL/hr.3. Administer acetaminophen 650 mg rectally.4. Increase norepinephrine infusion rate to 12 mcg/kg.The nurse quickly reviews Ms. D's latest laboratory test results, which have justarrived on the unit:Hematocrit 32% (0.32)Hemoglobin level 10.9 g/dL (109 g/L)Platelet count 96,000/mm3 (96 × 109/L)White blood cell count 26,000/mm3 (26 × 109/L)Blood urea nitrogen level 56 mg/dL (19.99 mmol/L)Creatinine level 2.9 mg dL (256.36 μmol/L)Glucose level 330 mg/dL (18.32 mmol/L)Potassium level 5.2 mEq/L (5.2 mmol/L)Sodium level 140 mEq/L (140 mmol/L)15. Which laboratory value requires the most immediate action by the nurse?1. Creatinine level2. Glucose level3. Potassium level4. Hemoglobin level16. At the end of the shift, the supervisor consults with the nurse about which ofthese oncoming staff members should be assigned to care for Ms. D. WhichRN will be best to assign to care for this patient?1. Travel RN with 20 years of ICU experience who has been working in thisICU for 4 months2. Newly graduated RN who worked in the ICU as a nursing assistant andhas finished the precepted orientation6093. Experienced ICU RN who has been called in on a day off to work for thefirst 4 hours of the shift4. RN who has been floated from the postanesthesia care unit (PACU) to theICU for the shift610Answer Key1. Ans: 2 The oxygen saturation indicates that the patient is severely hypoxemic(despite an increased respiratory rate). Because this hypoxia will affect allother body systems, it should be treated immediately. The other orders alsoshould be rapidly implemented, but they do not require action as urgently asthe low oxygen saturation. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Whenpatients are in critical distress, the ABCs (airway, breathing, and circulation)are usually the best guide to the priority actions, no matter what the patientdiagnosis is.2. Ans: 2 A nonrebreather mask can provide a fraction of inspired oxygen (Fio2)of close to 100%, which will be needed for this severely hypoxemic patient.Nasal cannulas deliver a maximum Fio2 of 44%, simple face masks deliver anFio2 of up to 60%, and Venturi masks provide a maximum Fio2 of 55%. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Since administration of oxygen is a commonnursing action, you will need to know which type of oxygen administrationequipment is needed to achieve a variety of Fio2 percentages.3. Ans: 1, 2, 6 Checking vital signs and urine output is included in UAPeducation. Experienced UAPs will know which patient information to reportimmediately to the supervising RN. UAPs working in the ED would alsohave been trained and know how to establish cardiac monitoring, althoughdysrhythmia analysis and treatment are the responsibility of the RN.Obtaining and documenting assessments and starting an IV line should bedone by the RN. Focus: Delegation.4. Ans: 1 Although atrial fibrillation at rapid rates can cause a significant dropin cardiac output, the current rate of 100 to 110 beats/min is not a likely causeof the patient's hypotension. Ongoing cardiac rhythm monitoring isnecessary, but no treatment of the patient's chronic atrial fibrillation is neededat this time. Cardioversion or administration of antidysrhythmic medicationssuch as amiodarone or metoprolol may be considered if the heart rateincreases. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 2 The ABG values indicate that the patient is hypoxemic (low Pao2 andoxygen saturation) and has a severe uncompensated respiratory acidosis (lowpH and elevated Paco2). Because she is unable to maintain adequateoxygenation and ventilation independently, intubation and mechanicalventilation are indicated. Sodium bicarbonate is administered only ifmetabolic acidosis is present. Although the patient will need ongoingrespiratory monitoring and may also benefit from albuterol therapy, thesetherapies are not adequate in a patient with these severe ABG abnormalities.Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 5, 3, 6, 4, 1, 2 All needed equipment and supplies should be obtained611before the intubation attempt. To minimize hypoxemia during the procedure,the patient should be preoxygenated for 3 to 5 minutes before the intubationattempt. After the endotracheal tube is inserted by the HCP, inflation of theendotracheal tube cuff is needed for effective ventilation. Checking forexhaled carbon dioxide through continuous wave-form capnography is themost accurate way to assess endotracheal placement. After the initialassessment of endotracheal placement is completed, the tube should besecured. Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 6 The Surviving Sepsis guidelines indicate that criteria for SIRSinclude temperature less than 96.8°F (36°C) or higher than 100.4°F (38°C),heart rate higher than 90 beats/min, and respiratory rate higher than 20breaths/min. Other criteria include Paco2 of 32 mm Hg (4.26 kPa), white bloodcell count less than 4000 mm3 (4.0 × 109/L) or greater than 12,000 mm3(12.0 × 109/L) When patients have two or more of the SIRS criteria along withknown or suspected infection, they are diagnosed with sepsis. Ms. D'shematuria (especially with associated suprapubic and back pain) suggestsurinary tract infection, pyelonephritis, or both, and she has fever, tachycardia,and tachypnea. Atrial fibrillation is chronic for this patient and not anindicator of sepsis. Blood glucose higher than 140 mg/dL (7.77 mmol/L)would suggest SIRS in a nondiabetic patient but is not unusually elevated inthis patient who has diabetes. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Keep aneye on the Surviving Sepsis guidelines; this important evidence-basedinformation was designed to assist in early detection and rapid treatment of alife-threatening condition. It is likely that these guidelines will be periodicallyupdated throughout your career.8. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 5 The initial resuscitation bundle in the Surviving Sepsisguidelines recommends that measurement of lactate level, obtaining cultures,administration of broad-spectrum antibiotics, and infusion of crystalloidsolutions such as normal saline be initiated rapidly when sepsis is suspected.Norepinephrine will be indicated if blood pressure remains low after rapidfluid infusion has been accomplished. Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 3 The most common complication of too-rapid IV infusion of fluids isvolume overload leading to fluid overload and heart failure. Althoughperipheral edema, decreased urine output, and jugular venous distentionmay be indicators that heart failure is developing, they do not occur asrapidly as the backup of fluids into the pulmonary capillaries and then intothe alveoli. Focus: Prioritization.10. Ans: 1 The first action should be to stop the infusion because pallor andcoolness at the site indicate possible extravasation. Assessment for pain,notification of the HCP, and injection of phentolamine at the site to causevasodilation are also appropriate but should be done after stopping theinfusion. Focus: Prioritization.11. Ans: 4, 2, 1, 3 When using the SBAR format, the nurse initially describes thecurrent situation, then gives appropriate background information, and then612the most current assessment data. Finally, the nurse providesrecommendations for any anticipated patient needs so that the receiving staffcan prepare for patient care. Focus: Prioritization.12. Ans: 1, 3, 5 LPN/LVNs are educated and licensed to perform tasks such asmonitoring and documenting intake and output, bedside blood glucosemonitoring, and administering insulin under the supervision of an RN.Although LPN/LVNs can collect data about stable patients, head-to-toe andcentral line assessment of critically ill patients should be done by RNs.LPN/LVNs may be able to administer IV fluids to stable patients (dependingon state nurse practice acts and on hospital policy), but infusion of largevolumes to unstable patients requires more education and scope of practiceand should be done by RN staff members with experience in caring forcritically ill patients. Focus: Assignment.13. Ans: 3 The low central venous pressure indicates that the patient is stillhypovolemic and will need an increase in IV fluids. The arterial bloodpressure and temperature have improved. The patient has chronic atrialfibrillation, and the rate has remained stable. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 4 In a hypovolemic patient, increasing the norepinephrine rate will notimprove perfusion and may increase the risk for adverse norepinephrineeffects such as arrhythmias. The nurse may question the other prescribedactions, but these are not as likely to result in poor patient outcomes. Ahigher-than-prescribed normal saline infusion rate may be needed to improvevolume status, the patient's temperature is already decreasing in response toantibiotic therapy, and oxygen saturation is already at an adequate (thoughnot optimal) level. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 2 The elevated glucose level will require administration of the orderedinsulin lispro using the hospital standard sliding-scale insulin orders.Potassium will move into cells along with glucose as insulin is administered,so the patient's potassium level does not require additional treatment. Theother abnormalities indicate the need for continued monitoring but will notrequire any immediate action at this time. Focus: Prioritization.16. Ans: 1 The travel RN has the required experience to provide care in thiscomplex case and has been working at the hospital long enough to be familiarwith how to obtain supplies, communicate with other departments, and soon. The other nurses either lack experience in caring for critically ill patients(the new graduate and the PACU nurse) or will not be able to offer thecontinuity of care that is desirable for the patient. Focus: Assignment.613C A S E S T U D Y 1 5614Heart Failure615QuestionsThe nurse admits Ms. C, an 81-year-old client, to the intensive care unit (ICU). Ms. C,who has a history of mitral valve regurgitation and left ventricular failure, came to theemergency department (ED) with symptoms of increasing shortness of breath over thepast week. The client received furosemide 100 mg IV in the ED, and she is receivingoxygen via a nasal cannula at 4 L/min.When Ms. C arrives in the ICU, she is sitting up in bed at a 60-degree angle. She ispale, with circumoral cyanosis, and her respirations appear labored and rapid. Sheindicates that she feels very short of breath.1. What action should the nurse take first?1. Listen to the breath sounds.2. Ask when the dyspnea started.3. Check the oxygen saturation.4. Raise the head of the bed to 75 degrees.When the nurse assesses Ms. C, she has crackles audible throughout both lung fieldsand is coughing up pink, frothy sputum. Her oxygen saturation is 85% (0.85) with theoxygen at 4 L/min per the nasal cannula. Respiratory rate is 38 breaths/min, and shehas 3 + to 4 + pitting edema in her feet and up to midcalf. With the head of the bedelevated to a 75-degree angle, the jugular veins are distended up to the jawline.2. Based on the client's history and assessment, the nurse will be mostconcerned about which complication?1. Pulmonary edema2. Cor pulmonale3. Pneumonia4. Pulmonary embolus3. Which action will the nurse take next?1. Activate the hospital's Rapid Response Team (RRT).2. Switch to a nonrebreather mask at a O2 flow rate of 15 L/min.3. Assist the client to cough and deep breathe.4. Administer the prescribed morphine sulfate 2 mg IV to the client.4. What additional assessment data are most important to obtain at this time?1. Skin color and capillary refill6162. Orientation and pupil reaction to light3. Heart sounds and point of maximum impulse4. Blood pressure and apical pulse5. Ms. C's blood pressure is 98/52 mm Hg, and her apical pulse is 116 beats/min.The cardiac monitor shows sinus tachycardia at a rate of 110 to 120 beats/min.Which action prescribed by the health care provider (HCP) will the nurseimplement first?1. Give enalapril 2.5 mg PO.2. Administer furosemide 100 mg IV.3. Obtain a blood potassium level.4. Insert a no. 16 French Foley catheter.6. Which prescribed action is best to assign to the experienced LPN/LVN who isassisting with the client's care?1. Give enalapril 2.5 mg PO.2. Administer furosemide 100 mg IV.3. Obtain a blood potassium level.4. Insert a no. 16 French Foley catheter.7. The nurse administers morphine sulfate 2 mg IV to Ms. C. A new RNgraduate who has just started in the ICU asks why morphine is prescribed forthis client. What is the best response?1. “To help prevent chest discomfort.”2. “To slow Ms. C's respiratory rate.”3. “To lower Ms. C's anxiety level.”4. “To decrease venous return to the heart.”8. Ms. C's potassium level is 3.3 mEq/L (3.3 mmol/L). The HCP prescribespotassium chloride (KCl) 10 mEq IV. How should the nurse administer theKCl?1. Use an infusion pump to give the KCl over 10 minutes.2. Dilute the KCl in 100 mL of 5% dextrose in water (D5W) and infuse over 1hour.3. Administer the KCl by IV push over at least 1 minute using a 10-mLsyringe.4. Add the KCl to 1 L of D5W and administer over 8 hours.9. After infusing the KCl, the nurse administers the furosemide to Ms. C. Whichnursing action will be most useful in evaluating whether the furosemide ishaving the desired effect?1. Weighing the client daily2. Measuring hourly urine output3. Monitoring blood pressure6174. Assessing lung sounds10. Ms. C's HCP arrives and, after assessing her status, prescribes nesiritide 100mcg (2 mcg/kg) IV bolus followed by a continuous IV infusion of 0.5 mcg/min(0.01 mcg/kg/min). Which parameter is most important to monitor during thenesiritide infusion?1. Heart rate2. Blood pressure3. Peripheral edema4. Neurologic status11. The nurse is preparing to leave at the end of the shift. Which oncomingnurse is best to assign to care for Ms. C?1. Float RN who has worked on the coronary step-down unit for 9 years andhas floated to the ICU before2. RN from a staffing agency who has 5 years of ICU experience and isorienting to the ICU today3. Experienced ICU RN who is already assigned to care for a newly admittedclient with chest trauma4. Newly graduated RN who needs more experience in caring for clients withleft ventricular failureA few days later, Ms. C has improved enough to transfer to the step-down unit. Herweight has decreased 4 kg from the admission weight. A systolic murmur is audible atthe apex of the heart. She denies shortness of breath and has crackles only at the lungbases. The cardiac monitor shows sinus rhythm with frequent premature ventricularcontractions (PVCs). Ms. C reports no dizziness but says that her vision seems“fuzzy.” She has 2 + pitting ankle edema. Her vital sign measurements are as follows:Blood pressure 118/62 mm HgHeart rate 86 beats/minO2 saturation 95% (0.95), (room air)Respiratory rate 24 breaths/minTemperature 97.8°F (36.6°C)Her medications are the following:• Furosemide 40 mg PO twice daily• Aspirin 81 mg PO daily• KCl 10 mEq PO daily• Enalapril 2.5 mg PO daily• Digoxin 0.25 mg PO daily12. Which of the assessment findings described earlier are most important toreport to the HCP?1. Crackles and oxygen saturation6182. Frequent PVCs and fuzzy vision3. Apical murmur and pulse rate4. Ankle edema and current weight13. Which current laboratory values for this client will be most important for thenurse to review? Select all that apply.1. Potassium2. Glucose3. Magnesium4. B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP)5. Calcium6. Albumin7. CreatinineThe laboratory results are:Laboratory Test ResultGlucose 96 mg/dL (5.33 mmol/L)Potassium 3.4 mEq/L (3.4 mmol/L)Magnesium 1.4 mEq/L (0.7 mmol/L)Calcium 9.1 mg/dL (2.27 mmol/L)Albumin 3.7 g/dL (37 g/L)Creatinine 0.96 mg/dL (84.86 μmol/L)B-type Natriuretic Peptide 194 pg/mL (194 pmol/L)14. All of Ms. C's medications are scheduled to be given at 9:00 am. Based on theclient's assessment data and laboratory results, which medications will thenurse hold until after consulting with the HCP? Select all that apply.1. Furosemide2. Aspirin3. KCl4. Enalapril5. Digoxin15. Using the SBAR (situation, background, assessment, recommendation)format, indicate the order in which the nurse will communicate concerns tothe HCP.1. “Today her lungs are clear to auscultation, but her potassium level is3.4 mEq/L (3.4 mmol/L). I am concerned that she may have digoxintoxicity.”2. “I’d like to obtain a digoxin level and administer additional potassiumsupplements before giving the prescribed digoxin and furosemide.”3. “This is the nurse caring for Ms. C; I am calling because she has some PVCsand reports fuzzy vision.”4. “Ms. C was admitted several days ago with pulmonary edema and619dyspnea. She has been receiving digoxin and furosemide daily sinceadmission.”_____, _____, _____, _____Ms. C is discharged 2 days later. Her discharge medications are:• Furosemide 40 mg PO daily• Aspirin 81 mg PO daily• KCl 10 mEq PO three times daily• Enalapril 2.5 mg PO twice dailyIn addition, the HCP prescribes a new medication, carvedilol 3.125 mg PO twicedaily. A home health referral is also prescribed.16. Which information will the nurse include when developing the dischargeteaching plan? Select all that apply.1. Plan to weigh yourself every day at the same time.2. Call if you feel more short of breath or have weight gain.3. Take the furosemide every evening at bedtime.4. Drink at least 2500 mL of fluids daily.5. Move slowly when changing from a lying to a standing position.6. You will need a follow-up appointment soon after being discharged.7. Avoid cooking with salt or adding salt to foods.When Ms. C is visited by the home health nurse the next week, she tells the nurse thatshe is worried because “my pulse rate has been 58 to 62.” Her lungs are clear toauscultation, and she has no ankle swelling. Her weight has increased 1 lb (0.45 kg)since hospital discharge.17. Based on this information, what nursing action is most important for Ms. C?1. Teach her about the expected effects of carvedilol.2. Ask whether she has been taking furosemide daily.3. Arrange for transport to the ED.4. Remind her that she should not add salt to food.18. Which additional finding by the home health nurse will be most importantto communicate to the HCP?1. Blood pressure is 108/54 mm Hg.2. Apical pulse is 56 beats/min.3. Client states that she takes her daily medications after eating.4. Client reports that she snores when asleep and always feels sleepy.620Answer Key1. Ans: 3 Evidence-based guidelines for the treatment of acute heart failureindicate that oxygen administration to relieve symptoms of hypoxemia is apriority, so the nurse should check oxygen saturation as the first action todetermine whether an increase in oxygen delivery is needed. The otheractions are also appropriate but not as the initial action. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 1 The client's symptoms of hypoxemia and pink frothy sputum and herhistory of dyspnea, mitral valve regurgitation, and left ventricular failuresuggest pulmonary edema (severe left ventricular failure) as a probablediagnosis. (She also has symptoms of right ventricular failure, but these arenot as great a concern.) Her history does not indicate that she has pulmonaryhypertension, so cor pulmonale is not a likely concern. Pneumonia will alsocause dyspnea and crackles, but sputum is usually thick. Althoughhypoxemia occurs with a pulmonary embolus, crackles and frothy sputumare not consistent with this complication. Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 2 The client is hypoxemic, so giving oxygen at the highest level possibleis the priority. Activation of the RRT and administration of morphine are alsoappropriate actions. Coughing and deep breathing are not likely to be helpfulbecause they will not clear fluid from the alveoli. Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 4 Because cardiac output is frequently decreased in left ventricularfailure, monitoring of perfusion with data such as blood pressure and heartrate is essential. The other data may also be useful in determining theadequacy of perfusion, but they are not as important as the blood pressureand pulse rate. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 3 Although the assessment indicates that a loop diuretic is indicated, it isessential to know the client's potassium level before administeringfurosemide. She has already received furosemide in the ED, which can causehypokalemia. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors can increasepotassium levels, so it is also essential to know the potassium level beforegiving the enalapril. The retention catheter is appropriate for this client, butthe priority is to ensure that her potassium level is within normal limits andthen administer the diuretic to decrease volume overload. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: When administering diuretics, ACEinhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blocking agents, you should be aware ofrecent electrolyte levels (especially potassium) before giving the medications.6. Ans: 4 LPN/LVN education and scope of practice include insertion ofcatheters. Administering medications to clients in unstable condition is bestaccomplished by RNs who have experience in caring for critically ill clients.Although some LPN/LVNs may be able to perform venipuncture, obtaining ablood sample could be delegated to the laboratory staff so that the LPN/LVNcan insert the catheter. Focus: Assignment.6217. Ans: 4 Morphine is used in pulmonary edema for its effect as a venodilator,which decreases venous return to the heart and reduces ventricular preload.Although morphine is used to treat angina, this client has not reported chestpain. Morphine may decrease Ms. C's respiratory rate, but this is not adesired effect. Morphine may decrease the client's anxiety, but this is not theprimary reason for administering it to clients with pulmonary edema. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Morphine is one of the most commonlyprescribed medications in the hospital. If you were not familiar with thepharmacology of morphine for respiratory applications, look up thisinformation. Also, check out morphine usage for end-of-life clients.8. Ans: 2 KCl is infused at a rate no faster than 10 mEq/hr through a peripheralIV line and no faster than 20 to 30 mEq/hr through a central catheter. InfusingKCl too rapidly (over 1 or 10 minutes) is contraindicated because this maycause cardiac arrest. Administering KCl over 8 hours would delay theadministration of furosemide. Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 4 Because Ms. C's major problem is pulmonary edema, the most usefulinformation will be changes in her lung sounds. The other data are alsohelpful in assessing for volume overload but are not as pertinent to thediagnosis of pulmonary edema. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip:Pulmonary congestion caused by fluid overload can occur very suddenly inheart failure but also in other situations, such as IV fluid infusions. Becausechanges in fluid balance can occur rapidly in acutely ill clients, auscultationof lung sounds is a common and very useful assessment to determinewhether changes in treatment need to be considered. You will also need tomonitor other respiratory parameters, such as respiratory effort, respiratoryrate, and oxygen saturation.10. Ans: 2 Because nesiritide causes vasodilation and diuresis, hypotension isthe most common adverse effect. The other data will also be useful indetermining whether the client's condition is improving or in assessing foradverse effects but are not as important as frequent blood pressuremeasurement. Focus: Prioritization.11. Ans: 1 An RN with experience on a coronary step-down unit would befamiliar with the care of clients with left ventricular failure. There has notbeen an opportunity to evaluate the knowledge level of the agency RN; inaddition, this RN will not be familiar with hospital or ICU policies or locationof supplies. The experienced ICU nurse is caring for a client whose conditionis potentially very unstable, which leaves little time to assess and intervenefor Ms. C. The new graduate is not experienced enough to care for a clientlike Ms. C, whose condition still may deteriorate. The new graduate could beteamed with a more experienced nurse to learn more about the care of clientswith severe left ventricular failure. Focus: Assignment.12. Ans: 2 Dysrhythmias and visual disturbances are symptoms of digoxintoxicity, which can lead to fatal dysrhythmias such as ventricular tachycardiaand ventricular fibrillation, so measurement of the digoxin level should be622ordered. The other findings would not be unusual in a client with chronicheart failure and mitral valve disease, although ongoing assessments areindicated. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 7 Because the client is receiving diuretic therapy, avoidinghypokalemia and hypomagnesemia is essential. Potassium supplements andangiotensin-enzyme inhibitors can increase potassium level. Diuretic use canimpact on renal function, so monitoring creatinine is important. BNP levelsare used to check for improvement in heart failure. Glucose, calcium, andalbumin may also be monitored but are not as important in evaluating fortreatment effectiveness or adverse effects of treatment in clients with heartfailure. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 1, 5 Because the nurse is concerned that the client may have digoxintoxicity, the digoxin should be held. Hypokalemia can contribute to the riskfor digoxin toxicity, and Ms. C is not acutely short of breath, so thefurosemide (which causes potassium loss) should also be held untilconsulting with Ms. C's HCP. There are no indications that the othermedications are causing any adverse effects, and they should all beadministered. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 3, 4, 1, 2 Using the SBAR format, the nurse first identifies himself orherself, gives the client's name, and describes the current situation. Next,relevant background information, such as the client's diagnosis andmedications, are stated. The assessment includes both pertinent client dataand the nurse's analysis of the situation. Finally, the nurse makes arecommendation indicating what action he or she thinks is needed. Focus:Prioritization.16. Ans: 1, 2, 5, 6, 7 National guidelines indicate that discharge instructions forclients with heart failure should address topics such as weight monitoring,low salt diet, follow-up appointments, medications, activity levels, and whatto do if symptoms recur. Daily weights are an excellent means of monitoringvolume status. Clients should be taught to call the HCP when symptoms firstbegin to worsen, rather than waiting until they need to be admitted to thehospital. ACE inhibitors such as enalapril can cause orthostatic hypotension,so changing positions slowly is important to avoid dizziness and falls.Furosemide should not be taken in the evening because it will affect sleepquality. High fluid intake can cause volume overload in clients with heartfailure. Focus: Prioritization.17. Ans: 1 Beta-blocker therapy may lead to bradycardia, and the nurse willplan to educate the client that a slightly low heart rate is not a cause forconcern with the carvedilol. If clients are not told to expect side effects suchas a slower heart rate, they may discontinue beta-blocking medications.Although the nurse will ask about medication and diet compliance, theclient's clear lungs, minimal weight gain, and lack of peripheral edemaindicate that no changes are needed in her self-management at this time.Although worsening heart failure may indicate a need for hospital admission,623this client's assessment indicates a stable condition. Focus: Prioritization.18. Ans: 4 Sleep apnea is common in clients with heart failure and cancontribute to worsening of heart failure and lead to more frequenthospitalizations. Current heart failure treatment guidelines indicate that sleepapnea should be considered as a cause of fatigue in clients with heart failure.The HCP may want to arrange for sleep studies for this client. The bloodpressure is normal. The client does have a slight bradycardia, and somemedications are better absorbed on an empty stomach, but the assessmentdata indicate that the current medications are effective, and no changes areneeded in the medication regimen. Focus: Prioritization.624C A S E S T U D Y 1 6625Multiple Patients With PeripheralVascular Disease626QuestionsThe RN is the team leader working with a licensed practical nurse/licensed vocationalnurse (LPN/LVN), an experienced unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP), and a seniornursing student to provide nursing care for six patients in a vascular surgery unit.The patients are as follows:• Ms. C, a 38-year-old woman with systemic lupus erythematosus who has developedsymptoms of Raynaud phenomenon. She reports numbness, tingling, and cold in herwrists and hands bilaterally• Mr. R, a 57-year-old man with chronic peripheral arterial disease who reports severepain due to an arterial ulcer on his left great toe• Mr. Z, a 44-year-old man with Buerger disease who wants to discuss enrolling in asmoking cessation program• Ms. Q, a 69-year-old overweight woman with chronic hypertension whose bloodpressure (BP) at the end of the night shift was 208/96 mm Hg• Mr. S, a 72-year-old man for whom an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) must beruled out, and who is reporting severe, worsening back pain• Ms. A, a 65-year-old woman with peripheral venous disease and left calf swellingwho is scheduled for venous duplex ultrasonography this morning1. The nurse understands that which conditions are at increased risk fordevelopment when a patient has hypertension? Select all that apply.1. Gastric ulcers2. Kidney disease3. Stroke (brain attack)4. Emphysema5. Myocardial infarction6. Parkinson disease2. After the change-of-shift report, the RN makes rounds on the patients. Listthe priority order for assessing these patients.1. Ms. C2. Mr. R3. Mr. Z4. Ms. Q5. Mr. S6. Ms. A____, ____, ____, ____, ____, ____3. When Mr. S is assessed, which assessment technique would the RN instruct627the student nurse to avoid?1. Auscultating the abdomen for a bruit2. Palpating the abdomen to detect a mass3. Observing the abdomen for a pulsation4. Performing a pain assessment4. Mr. S continues to report severe back pain. On assessment, the RN detects abruit and notices pulsation in the left lower quadrant. What is the nurse's bestfirst action?1. Measure abdominal girth.2. Place the patient in a high sitting position.3. Notify the patient's health care provider (HCP).4. Administer pain medication.5. All of these interventions for Mr. S are prescribed by the HCP. Which actionshould the RN assign to the LPN/LVN?1. Insert a urinary catheter.2. Administer morphine sulfate 2 mg IV push.3. Place a second IV saline lock line.4. Measure vital signs every 15 minutes.6. A computed tomography (CT) scan reveals that Mr. S has an aneurysm that is7.5 cm in diameter. Which preoperative care tasks should the RN delegate tothe nursing student under supervision? Select all that apply.1. Teaching Mr. S about coughing and deep breathing2. Assessing all peripheral pulses for postoperative comparison3. Administering bowel preparation magnesium sulfate orally4. Drawing blood for the laboratory for typing and screening5. Discussing the reasons for the surgery6. Pack Mr. S's belongings in preparation for postop transfer to the surgicalintensive care unit (SICU)7. At 8:30 am, the UAP reports that Ms. Q, with chronic hypertension, has a BP of198/94 mm Hg. Which is the priority action, and who is the most appropriateperson to accomplish this action at this time?1. Assign the LPN/LVN to give Ms. Q's 9:00 am furosemide and enalapril now.2. Instruct the UAP to get Ms. Q back into bed immediately.3. Tell the UAP to recheck Ms. Q's BP every 15 minutes.4. Send the LPN/LVN to recheck Ms. Q's BP to ensure that the reading iscorrect.8. The RN is preparing a health teaching plan for Ms. Q. Which key aspectswould be included? Select all that apply.1. Weight reduction strategies6282. Avoidance of tobacco and caffeine3. Drink no more than three alcohol-containing drinks per day4. Exercise 6 to 7 days a week for at least 1 hour5. Use of relaxation techniques to decrease stress6. Restrict dietary sodium as recommended by the American HeartAssociation (AHA)9. After receiving her morning dose of enalapril, Ms. Q states that sheexperienced dizziness when getting out of bed to use the bathroom. What isthe RN's priority action?1. Ask the patient about presence of a nagging cough.2. Check orthostatic BPs lying, sitting, and standing.3. Assess the patient for signs of allergy such are rashes.4. Check the patient's bladder for urinary retention.10. A nursing concern of chronic pain has been identified for Mr. R, who haschronic peripheral arterial disease (PAD). Which action by the nursingstudent causes the RN to intervene?1. Administering a narcotic analgesic 45 minutes before an ulcer dressingchange2. Asking the patient if he has ever tried progressive muscle relaxation3. Assessing the patient's response to pain medication administration4. Agreeing to hold the patient's docusate at the patient's request11. Mr. R tells the student nurse that when he walks for only a block or two, heexperiences discomfort that is burning and cramping and that is so painfulthat it makes him stop. What is best way for the student to document thisfinding?1. Intermittent claudication2. Rest pain3. Dependent rubor4. Arterial ulcer12. The RN has assigned the student nurse to teach Mr. R about foot care relatedto his PAD. Which teaching points would the RN instruct the student nurseto include? Select all that apply.1. “Keep your feet clean by washing with a mild soap in room temperaturewater.”2. “Wear comfortable, well-fitting shoes except when at home.”3. “Cut the toenails straight across and keep them clean and filed.”4. “Apply lubricating lotion to feet to prevent dried and cracked skin.”5. “Use a heating pad to keep your feet warm, especially at night.”6. “Avoid extended pressure on your feet and ankles.”62913. At noon, the LPN/LVN goes to cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)training and is replaced by an RN floated from the postanesthesia care unit(PACU). Which patients should the team leader assign to the PACU RN?Select all that apply.1. Ms. C, who needs teaching about how to avoid exacerbation of symptomsfor her condition2. Mr. Z, who still needs information about available smoking cessationprograms3. Ms. Q, whose BP is still elevated and needs frequent BP monitoring4. Ms. A, who is worried because the HCP just told her she has a deep veinthrombosis (DVT)5. Mr. S, who reports that his back pain is getting much worse6. Mr. R, whose left great toe arterial ulcer continues to be painful even afterthe student nurse administered his pain medication14. The nurse is preparing a teaching plan for Ms. C, who has Raynaud disease.Which key points should be included? Select all that apply.1. “Avoid exposure to cold by wearing warm clothes.”2. “Nifedipine will help decrease and relieve your symptoms.”3. “Keep your home at a comfortably warm temperature.”4. “The problems you experience are caused by vasospasms.”5. “Stress reduction techniques can help prevent symptoms.”6. “Warm beverages such as hot coffee and tea will help decrease symptoms.”15. A nursing concern of poor peripheral perfusion has been identified for Ms.C. Which actions should the RN delegate to the experienced UAP? Select allthat apply.1. Assessing for peripheral pulses, edema, capillary refill, and skintemperature2. Inspecting the skin for the presence of tissue breakdown and arterial ulcers3. Reminding the patient to perform active range-of-motion exercises astolerated4. Reinforcing with the patient the need to take in adequate fluids during theday5. Assisting the patient to sit at the bedside and then transfer to a chair6. Administering daily oral doses of nifedipine16. Ms. C asks the student nurse how the drug nifedipine will help with herRaynaud disease. What is the student nurse's best response?1. “It will slow down your heart rate and decrease your pain.”2. “It will cause vasodilation and decrease the vasospasms that cause yourpain.”3. “It will lower your blood pressure and decrease the workload of your630heart.”4. “It will help keep your fluid and electrolytes in balance to decrease yourpain.”17. What precautions should the RN instruct the student nurse to be sure toteach the patient while taking nifedipine? Select all that apply.1. “Side effects of this drug can include facial flushing and headaches.”2. “Be sure to check your respiratory rate before taking this drug.”3. “When you get out of bed, do so slowly because of the potential forhypotension.”4. “You should be sure to consume foods rich in potassium such as bananas.”5. “Avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice while taking this drug.”6. “Take over-the-counter calcium tablets every day while on this drug.”18. Ms. A, whose calf is swollen from peripheral venous disease, asks why shemust have an injection of low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH). What isthe RN's best response?1. “LMWH will dissolve the clots in your legs.”2. “LMWH will prevent new clots from forming.”3. “LMWH will thin your blood and slow down clotting.”4. “LMWH will prevent the clots from migrating to your lungs.”19. Ms. A has a nursing concern of increased risk for injury. Which action willthe RN delegate to the UAP?1. Assisting the patient with morning care and repositioning in bed2. Monitoring the patient's daily international normalized ratio3. Checking the patient every 4 hours for signs of bleeding4. Teaching the patient to call for assistance when getting out of bed20. Which nursing assessment finding supports the possible diagnosis of DVTfor Ms. A?1. Spasm of her left calf2. Shortness of breath3. Unilateral swelling of her left calf4. Sharp chest pain21. Ms. A returns from her diagnostic test with a diagnosis of DVT, which is tobe treated medically. Which interventions and actions does the nurse expectthe HCP to prescribe? Select all that apply.1. Bed rest2. Elevation of the left leg3. Compression stockings4. Daily massage of the left calf5. Continue subcutaneous LMWH6316. Check daily international normalized ratio (INR) levels22. The UAP reports to the RN that Mr. Z, with Buerger disease, awoke from anap reporting pain in the arch of his left foot. Which actions should the RNtake? Select all that apply.1. Assess the patient's pain.2. Administer prescribed nifedipine.3. Place the patient in a supine position and elevate the foot.4. Lower the room temperature.5. Instruct the patient to avoid cold temperatures.6. Check the patient's toes for any signs of gangrene or ulcers.23. The RN is reviewing the lipid profile for Ms. Q, who has been diagnosedwith atherosclerosis. Which finding is of most concern?1. Total serum cholesterol level of 220 mg/dL2. Triglyceride level of 165 mg/dL3. Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol level of 155 mg/dL4. High-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol level of 38 mg/dL24. The RN is teaching the student nurse who is caring for Mr. R how todifferentiate peripheral arterial from peripheral venous ulcers. Whichcharacteristics would the RN stress are indications of arterial ulcers? Selectall that apply.1. Claudication is absent.2. Rest pain is present.3. Ulcers occur at ends of and between toes.4. Brown pigmentation is often present.5. Pallor is seen when raising the extremity, and dependent rubor is seenwhen lowering it.6. Treatment involves damp-to-dry dressing changes.Three days later, the nursing student returns to complete her clinical rotation on theperipheral vascular unit. To facilitate continuity of care and enhance the student'slearning experience about AAA, the student is assigned to assist in the postoperativecare and discharge planning for Mr. S.25. Mr. S underwent surgery 3 days ago and was transferred back to thevascular surgery unit. The student nurse reports that the patient has no bowelsounds present. What does the RN tell the student is the best action?1. Check the nasogastric tube for kinks.2. Notify the surgeon immediately.3. Obtain an abdominal radiograph immediately (STAT).6324. Document the finding in the chart.26. Mr. S has recovered so the RN and student nurse are preparing for dischargeteaching. Which key points would be included in the teaching plan? Select allthat apply.1. Stair climbing is initially strictly limited.2. A bedside commode is required even if there is a first-floor bathroom.3. Heavy lifting (usually more than 15 to 20 lb [6.8 to 9.1 kg]) is avoided.4. Use caution for activities that involve pulling, pushing, or straining.5. Expect to experience abdominal fullness, chest pain, and shortness ofbreath.6. Driving a car will be restricted for several weeks.633Answer Key1. Ans: 2, 3, 5 Hypertension, or high BP, is the most common health problemseen in primary care settings and can cause stroke, myocardial infarction(heart attack), kidney failure, and death if not treated early and effectively.Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 5, 4, 2, 6, 1, 3 The worsening back pain of Mr. S may signal an AAA thatis enlarging, and he is at risk for rupture, which is urgent and immediatelylife threatening. Ms. Q's hypertension should be assessed next because she isat risk for complications such as stroke. Next, Mr. R, the patient with thesevere pain, should be assessed and given pain medication. Ms. A isscheduled for Doppler studies and may have questions and need teachingbefore the procedure. Ms. C, the patient with Raynaud disease, should beassessed next, although the symptoms she is reporting are typical of thisproblem. Finally, the nurse should see Mr. Z to discuss arranging forsomeone to talk with him about smoking cessation. Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 2 Palpation of the abdomen must be avoided because the mass may betender, and there is risk of causing a rupture. Auscultating for a bruit andobserving for pulsation are appropriate assessment techniques. Painassessment is appropriate because such patients typically experience steady,gnawing abdominal, flank, or back pain that is unaffected by movement andmay last for hours or days. Focus: Supervision, Prioritization; Test TakingTip: To answer a question like this, the nurse must be aware of assessmenttechniques that can be dangerous and cause injury to the patient. In this case,palpating the abdomen could cause rupture of the AAA with severe bleedingand risk for death.4. Ans: 3 The patient's symptoms and the nurse's assessment findings indicatean AAA that may be expanding, and this places the patient at risk forrupture. This is an urgent situation, and the HCP should be notifiedimmediately. The nurse should not place the patient in a high sitting positionbecause this may place added pressure on the patient's AAA, leading torupture. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 1 The patient having surgery for an AAA repair may need a urinarycatheter inserted to keep the bladder empty and deflated. LPN/LVNeducational preparation includes inserting urinary catheters. In some states,LPN/LVNs can insert IV catheters and administer IV drugs, but this is nottrue of all states and facilities. To perform these actions, the LPN/LVN wouldneed additional education and training. Check local, state, and facilitypolicies. IV morphine is a high-alert drug, and giving these drugs to unstablepatients is best done by an experienced RN. The UAP could be delegated tomeasure the patient's vital signs, with instructions from the nurse aboutwhich findings to report (e.g., increased BP or heart rate). Focus: Delegation,Supervision.6346. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 6 The nursing student should be able to provide teaching aboutsimple concepts such as coughing and taking deep breaths, perform simpleassessments such as measuring peripheral pulses, and administer oralmedications, all under the supervision of the nurse. The student could also beassigned to pack Mr. S's personal belongings for postoperative transfer to theSICU. The nurse or someone with special training in performingvenipuncture should draw blood for the laboratory tests. The patient mayhave questions about the surgery, so discussion about the reasons for surgeryshould carried out by an experienced nurse. The nurse could mentor thestudent by allowing the student to be present during the discussion. Focus:Delegation, Supervision.7. Ans: 1 Administering the patient's BP medications is aimed at correcting theproblem and lowering the patient's BP. Getting the patient back into bed andreassessing the patient's BP are appropriate actions but do not focus on theproblem of lowering the patient's BP. Focus: Supervision, Delegation,Assignment, Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: To answer a question like this,first the nurse must determine the problem; then the nurse must decide whatis the best way to solve the problem. In this case, the problem is that thepatient's BP is still fairly high. The best way to solve the problem is toadminister medications that will lower the BP.8. Ans: 1, 2, 5, 6 The patient is overweight, so weight loss is appropriate as aresodium restriction, avoidance of tobacco and caffeine, and relaxationtechniques to reduce stress. A female patient should not consume more thanone alcoholic drink per day. Exercise is a good strategy but should be startedslowly and is recommended for 3 to 4 days per week for about 40 minutes perday according to AHA guidelines. Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 2 Enalapril is an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor drug.These drugs commonly cause dizziness and can increase the patient's risk forfalls. The priority action at this time is to check orthostatic BPs. The nursewould also teach the patient to move slowly from lying to sitting andstanding positions and to call for help when getting out of bed. A naggingcough is a side effect of these drugs, and the nurse would want to knowabout this, but it is not urgent at this time. ACE inhibitors do not cause fluidretention, and dizziness is not a sign of allergy to the drug. Focus:Prioritization.10. Ans: 4 The nurse should intervene when the patient asks to have thedocusate held because opioids often cause the side effect of constipation. Thepatient must be taught about the importance of this medication in preventingunwanted side effects. If the patient has a good reason for refusing thedocusate (e.g., he has been having episodes of diarrhea), then the nurse mayhold the drug (documenting the reason), but the nurse should teach thestudent about the importance of asking why the patient is requesting that thedrug be held. The other actions are appropriate. Giving the pain medicationbefore the dressing change will make the procedure less painful. Focus:635Assignment, Supervision.11. Ans: 1 Most patients with PAD seek medical attention for a classic leg painknown as intermittent claudication (a term derived from a word meaning “tolimp”). Usually they can walk only a certain distance before discomfort (e.g.,cramping or burning muscular pain) forces them to stop. The pain stops withrest. When patients resume walking, they can walk the same distance beforeit returns. Thus, the pain is considered reproducible. As the diseaseprogresses, they can walk only shorter and shorter distances before painrecurs. Focus: Prioritization.12. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 6 Comfortable, well-fitting shoes should be worn at all times,even in the home, and heating pads should not be applied to the feet. Theother four teaching points are appropriate when teaching a patient with PADhow to care for his or her feet. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 2, 3 Mr. Z is in stable condition, and the PACU nurse could begineducating him about smoking cessation. The PACU nurse is skilled at BPmonitoring and would have no difficulty meeting Ms. Q's needs for care. Ms.A and Ms. C need the care of a nurse who is experienced in caring for andeducating patients with peripheral vascular disease to teach and answerquestions. Mr. S's worsening back pain may indicate expansion of his AAA,and he should be assigned to an experienced nurse. Mr. R's care shouldcontinue to be assigned to the nurse who has been caring for him since thebeginning of the shift and is familiar with his case. He will need frequent painassessments and may need additional pain interventions. Focus: Assignment.14. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 The underlying pathophysiology of Raynaud disease isvasospasm of the arterioles and arteries of the upper and lower extremities,usually unilaterally. Patients with this disorder should avoid caffeinatedbeverages. All of the other teaching points are appropriate to share with apatient with Raynaud disease. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 3, 4, 5 The UAP can remind about and reinforce nursing care measuresthat have already been taught by the RN. Assisting patients to get out of bedis also within the scope of practice for UAPs. Assessing and inspecting thepatient require additional education and skills appropriate to the RN's scopeof practice. Administering oral medications should be done by licensednurses. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.16. Ans: 2 Nifedipine is calcium channel blocker and a vasodilating drug thatwill decrease the painful vasospasms that occur and cause the symptoms ofRaynaud disease. Nifedipine will decrease heart rate and BP and may impactfluid and electrolytes, but vasodilation is the therapeutic effect whennifedipine is used to treat Raynaud disease. Focus: Prioritization.17. Ans: 1, 3, 5 While they are taking vasodilating drugs, such as nifedipine,teach patients about side effects such as facial flushing, hypotension, andheadaches. Also teach patient taking nifedipine to avoid grapefruit andgrapefruit juice to prevent severe adverse effects, including possible death.636Nifedipine is a calcium channel blocker, and these drugs do not affectrespirations or serum potassium and calcium levels. Focus: Prioritization.18. Ans: 2 LMWH can be used to treat or prevent DVT. When used fortreatment, LMWH prevents new blood clots from forming and preventsexisting clots from getting larger. This allows the normal body systems todissolve the clots that are already formed. This also reduces the risk ofpulmonary embolism. The drug does not “thin” a patient's blood or dissolvean existing clot. Focus: Prioritization.19. Ans: 1 The UAP's scope of practice and education include actions related toassisting patients with activities of daily living, such as morning care andrepositioning in bed. Monitoring, assessing, and providing instructions forthe patient require additional education and skills and are part of the RN'sscope of practice. Focus: Delegation, Supervision.20. Ans: 3 Classic signs and symptoms of DVT include calf or groin tendernessor pain and sudden onset of unilateral swelling of the leg. Shortness of breathand sharp chest pain are signs of the complication of pulmonary embolus inwhich a clot dislodges and travels to the pulmonary circulation. Focus:Prioritization.21. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 5 Bed rest, elevation of the affected extremity, use ofcompression stockings, and administration of LMWH are strategies toprevent complications of DVT such as pulmonary embolus (PE). However,the nurse should be aware that some research indicates that ambulation for apatient with DVT does not worsen the risk for PE. Massage of the affectedextremity increases the risk for PE. Checking INR or prothrombin time levelsis not required when a patient is prescribed a LMWH drug such asenoxaparin or dalteparin. Focus: Prioritization.22. Ans: 1, 2, 5, 6 Placing the patient in a supine position and elevating his footplaces the extremity above heart level, which slows arterial blood flow to thefoot and may lead to increased pain. A patient with Buerger disease shouldavoid cold and should wear warm clothes. All of the other actions areappropriate for a patient with Buerger disease. Checking the digits for ulcersor gangrene is essential for a patient with this condition. Focus: Prioritization.23. Ans: 3 Although all of these lipid profile findings are abnormal, the LDLcholesterol (“bad cholesterol”) level is much too high. A desirable LDLcholesterol level is less than 130 mg/dL for a healthy person or less than 70mg/dL for a patient with cardiovascular disease (CVD) or diabetes. Thenational guidelines for cholesterol management focus on lowering LDL as theprimary goal. The other results are of concern and should be attended to, butthey are not as excessively abnormal as is the LDL level. Focus: Prioritization.24. Ans: 2, 3, 5 With PAD ulcers, claudication, and rest pain are present. Ulcersare deep and occur at the ends of or between the toes. Brown pigmentationoccurs with venous ulcers, not arterial. Arterial ulcers are pale when elevatedbut show dependent rubor when lowered. Treatment of arterial ulcers637involves surgical revascularization; for venous ulcers treatment includeslong-term wound care, including unna boot application and damp-to-drydressings. Focus: Prioritization.25. Ans: 4 Postoperatively after AAA repair, bowel sounds are usually absentfor 2 or 3 days, and patients have a nasogastric tube in place on low suctionuntil bowel sounds return. The nurse should document the finding only andteach the student that this is to be expected and why. Focus: Delegation,Supervision, Prioritization.26. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 6 When a patient is discharged to home, stair climbing may berestricted initially, and he or she may need a bedside commode if thebathroom is inaccessible. Teach the patient who has undergone surgicalrepair about activity restrictions, wound care, and pain management. Patientsmay not perform activities that involve lifting heavy objects (usually morethan 15 to 20 lb [6.8 to 9.1 kg]) for 6 to 12 weeks postoperatively. Advise themto use caution for activities that involve pulling, pushing, or straining. Mostpatients are restricted from driving a car for several weeks after discharge.Teach patients receiving treatment for hypertension about the importance ofcontinuing to take prescribed drugs. Instruct them about the signs andsymptoms that must promptly be reported to the HCP, which includeabdominal fullness or pain, chest or back pain, shortness of breath, ordifficulty swallowing or hoarseness. Focus: Prioritization.638C A S E S T U D Y 1 7639Respiratory Difficulty After Surgery640QuestionsThe nurse has just received the change-of-shift report about Mr. E, a 26-year-old manwho had a ruptured appendix with emergency appendectomy 2 days ago. The reportincluded this information about Mr. E's vital signs, assessments, and prescribedtherapies:Vital Signs• Temp: 101.4°F (38.6°C)• Pulse: 118 beats/min (sinus tachycardia)• Respirations: 28 breaths/min• Blood pressure: 98/56 mm Hg• O2 saturation 90% (0.90) (decreased from 98% (0.98) over the past 4 hours)Assessment• Respiratory: Fine crackles heard throughout lungs; nonproductive cough• Gastrointestinal: Bowel sounds present, brown purulent drainage from wound drain• Neurologic: Alert and oriented × 3Therapies• O2 at 2 L/min per nasal cannula• Antibiotics: Vancomycin and ceftriaxone IV• Arterial blood gases, complete blood count, blood urea nitrogen, electrolytes, andglucose pending• Vancomycin trough level ordered1. Based on the information in the change-of-shift report, what is the nurse'sgreatest concern about Mr. E?1. Purulent abdominal drainage2. Sinus tachycardia3. Decreased oxygen saturation4. Elevated temperature2. Mr. E has a dose of vancomycin scheduled at 10:00 am. At what time will the641nurse ask the laboratory to draw blood for determining vancomycin troughlevel?1. 9:00 am2. 9:45 am3. 12:00 pm4. 1:00 pmWhen the nurse assesses Mr. E, he is sitting in a chair at the bedside. His respirationsappear labored, with a rate of 30 breaths/min. Pulse oximetry readings indicate that hisoxygen saturation is 88% to 89% (0.88 to 0.89). He looks anxious and says, “I’mhaving a little trouble catching my breath.” There are fine crackles throughout hislungs.3. What action will the nurse take next?1. Assist him back to bed.2. Increase the oxygen flow rate to 6 L/min.3. Administer the as needed (PRN) morphine IV.4. Finish the rest of the head-to-toe assessment.The arterial blood gas (ABG) analysis is completed, and the results are faxed to theunit:Arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide (Paco2) 30 mm Hg (3.99 kPa)Arterial partial pressure of oxygen (Pao2) 54 mm Hg (7.18 kPa)Bicarbonate (HCO3−) 20 mEq/L (20 mmol/L)O2 saturation 88% (0.88)pH 7.344. Which action will the nurse take next based on the ABG results?1. Place Mr. E on oxygen at 15 L/min via a nonrebreather mask.2. Obtain an order for sodium bicarbonate 50 mEq (50 mmol) IV.3. Administer the PRN morphine to slow the respiratory rate.4. Continue to monitor Mr. E's respiratory status and vital signs.5. The complete blood count results are now also available. Which result is ofmost concern to the nurse?1. Hematocrit of 37% (0.37)2. Hemoglobin level of 10.5 g/dL (105 g/L)3. White blood cell count of 24,000/mm3 (24 × 109/L)4. Platelet count of 120,000/mm3 (120 × 109/L)642Because Mr. E's condition is unstable, the nurse's other assigned client (Ms. O) for theshift will need to be reassigned to another staff member. Ms. O has diabetes and wasadmitted yesterday with pyelonephritis and hyperglycemia. She is receiving a regularinsulin infusion using the hospital's standard insulin sliding-scale protocols and needsto have blood glucose monitoring every hour. Her temperature has decreased from102°F to 100.6°F (38.9°C to 38.1°C) since antibiotics were started yesterday.6. Which staff member is best to assign to care for Ms. O?1. RN who has 10 years of experience on the pediatric unit and has floated tothe step-down unit for the day2. Newly graduated RN who has finished a 3-month orientation and isscheduled for the first day without a preceptor3. On-call RN with 5 years of experience on the step-down unit who will beable to arrive in about 1 hour4. Experienced RN from a staffing agency who is on orientation to the unittoday in preparation for a 6-month assignment7. After 15 minutes of oxygen administration using the nonrebreather mask, Mr.E's pulse oximeter still indicates that the oxygen saturation is 88% to 89%(0.88 to 0.89). Considering the client's history of ruptured appendix, hiscurrent vital signs and assessment data, and his laboratory results, whichcomplication is most likely?1. Aspiration pneumonia2. Acute asthma attack3. Spontaneous tension pneumothorax4. Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)8. Using the SBAR (situation, background, assessment, recommendation)format, indicate the order in which the nurse will communicate the concernsabout Mr. E to the health care provider (HCP).1. “His pulse oximetry reading is only 88% to 90% (0.88 to 0.90), although heis receiving high flow oxygen by a nonrebreather mask. I am concerned hemay have sepsis and be developing ARDS.”2. “This is the nurse caring for Mr. E. I’m calling because the client hasincreasing hypoxemia, as well as elevated white blood cell count,hypotension, and tachycardia.”3. “I think that you need to come and evaluate this client as soon as possible;he may need mechanical ventilation.”4. “Mr. E had an emergency appendectomy 2 days ago and has had purulentabdominal drainage and a fever, but he has not had any respiratorydifficulty until today.”_____, _____, _____, _____6439. The HCP assesses Mr. E and prescribes these actions. Which action should thenurse implement first?1. Place the client on bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) ventilation.2. Arrange to transfer the client to the intensive care unit (ICU).3. Administer nebulized albuterol every 4 hours as needed for dyspnea.4. Obtain blood, urine, and abdominal drainage samples for culture.With the BiPAP, Mr. E's oxygenation improves only slightly. He is transferred to theICU and intubated.10. Which is the best way to confirm correct placement of the endotracheal (ET)tube?1. Check the pulse oximetry level.2. Observe for chest rise with ventilation.3. Auscultate bilateral breath sounds.4. Use continuous waveform capnography.Mr. E's ET tube is secured, with the 23-cm mark on the tube at the level of Mr. E'steeth. Mr. E is connected to a positive-pressure ventilator with the following settings:Fraction of inspired oxygen (Fio2) 70% (0.70)Mode Assist control ventilationPositive end-expiratory pressure 10 cmRespiratory rate 30 breaths/minTidal volume (VT) 500 mLThe following arterial blood gas values are obtained 30 minutes after Mr. E is placedon the ventilator:HCO3− 20 mEq/L (20 mmol/L)O2 saturation 95% (0.95)Paco2 47 mm Hg (6.25 kPa)Pao2 65 mm Hg (8.64 kPa)pH 7.3111. Which ventilator change will the nurse anticipate based on analysis of theABG values?1. Increasing the tidal volume to 600 mL2. Changing the rate on the ventilator to 35 breaths/min3. Decreasing the Fio2 to 60% (0.60)4. Changing to continuous mandatory ventilation (CMV) mode644The nurse assists with the insertion of a central IV line for monitoring of centralvenous pressure and for fluid administration. A nasogastric tube is also inserted.When the nurse reassesses Mr. E, he has scattered crackles throughout both lungfields. He is restless and needs frequent reminding not to pull on the ET or nasogastrictubes. His urine output over the past 2 hours has been 50 mL of clear amber urine.Bowel sounds are slightly hypotonic but are audible in all four abdominal quadrants.The abdominal drainage is unchanged. The following vital signs and central venouspressure values are obtained:Blood pressure (BP) 100/46 mm HgHeart rate 124 beats/min (sinus tachycardia)O2 saturation 90% (0.90)Central venous pressure 3 mm HgRespirations 24 breaths/minTemperature 102.1°F (38.9°C)12. Based on the vital signs and assessment data, which collaborativeinterventions will the nurse anticipate at this time? Select all that apply.1. Increase the IV rate to 150 mL/hr.2. Administer furosemide 40 mg IV.3. Start norepinephrine infusion.4. Give diltiazem 15 mg IV.5. Administer high-calorie enteral feeding at 25 mL/hr.13. Although his oxygen saturation remains at 90% (0.90), Mr. E continues to berestless and needs frequent reminders to not pull at the ET tube. Whichmethod to reduce his anxiety and decrease the risk for accidental extubationwill the nurse try first?1. Obtain an order to restrain his hands and apply soft wrist restraints.2. Administer neuromuscular blockade medications and sedatives.3. Have a family member stay at Mr. E's bedside and reassure him.4. Remind Mr. E frequently that he needs the ET tube to breathe.14. A student nurse is assigned to the ICU and is preparing to suction Mr. E.Which action by the student requires that the nurse intervene immediately?1. Increasing the Fio2 to 100% (1.00) for 5 minutes before suctioning2. Using an open-suction technique to perform the suctioning3. Administering morphine 2 mg IV per standing order before suctioning4. Applying suction to the catheter while inserting it into the ET tube15. Which actions will the nurse use to decrease Mr. E's risk for developingventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP)? Select all that apply.1. Avoid sedating the client when possible.2. Change the ventilator tubing and humidifier daily.3. Assist the client with exercises several times daily.4. Keep the head of the bed elevated to at least 30 degrees.6455. Provide oral care several times daily with antibacterial solution.6. Monitor residual gastric volumes and hold feedings for volumes of 50 mLor more.16. All of these activities are included in the plan of care for clients with ARDS.Which activities can be assigned to an experienced licensed practicalnurse/licensed vocational nurse (LPN/LVN)? Select all that apply.1. Provide oral care every 4 hours.2. Place the client in the prone position for 10 hours daily.3. Assess breath sounds every 4 hours.4. Check axillary or tympanic temperature every 4 hours.5. Suction the ET tube as needed.6. Teach the client and family about routine nursing care.The nurse hears the ventilator high pressure alarm and finds that Mr. E appears veryagitated, with a respiratory rate of 40 breaths/min. The continuous pulse oximeterindicates an oxygen saturation of 81% (0.81). Mr. E's cardiac monitor shows a sinustachycardia with a rate of 142 beats/min.17. What action should the nurse take first?1. Listen to Mr. E's breath sounds.2. Increase the Fio2 setting to 100% (1.00).3. Check the ventilator settings and readouts.4. Suction Mr. E's ET tube after hyperoxygenating him.18. No breath sounds are audible over Mr. E's right side, and the right side doesnot expand much with inspiration. The ET tube is still at the 23-cm mark atthe client's teeth. What complication of mechanical positive-pressureventilation is most likely?1. Aspiration pneumonia2. Inadvertent extubation3. Tension pneumothorax4. ET tube displacement19. Which action should the nurse take next?1. Notify the HCP about the client's respiratory distress.2. Gather the equipment needed for chest tube insertion.3. Offer reassurance and explanations to the client.4. Give the prescribed lorazepam 1 mg IV PRN for agitation.20. The HCP inserts a chest tube into the right anterior chest at the secondintercostal space. After connection of the chest tube collection device, which646finding by the nurse is most important to report to the HCP?1. The client indicates that he has pain with every ventilator-assistedinspiration.2. A large number of air bubbles appear in the water-seal chamber duringexpiration.3. Continuous bubbling occurs throughout the respiratory cycle in the suctioncontrol chamber.4. 100 mL of blood drains into the collection chamber immediately after thechest tube insertion.21. Just before the change-of-shift report to the oncoming RN, the nurse reviewsMr. E's other laboratory test results for today. Which information is mostimportant to communicate to the HCP?1. Blood glucose level of 140 mg/dL (7.7 mmol/L)2. Potassium level of 5.1 mEq/L (5.1 mmol/L)3. Sodium level of 134 mEq/L (134 mmol/L)4. Blood urea nitrogen level of 52 mg/dL (18.56 mmol/L)647Answer Key1. Ans: 3 The marked decrease in oxygen saturation over the past few hoursindicates that Mr. E is developing respiratory complications that will requireimmediate nursing action. The other information also calls for assessmentand possible intervention but not as urgently as the change in his respiratorystatus. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Even when vital signs andoxygen saturation are still in the normal range, rapid or sudden changes intemperature, heart rate, BP, respiratory rate, or oxygen saturation are a redflag for an acute underlying process and require further assessment orintervention.2. Ans: 2 Samples for measurement of antibiotic trough levels are drawn justbefore the next scheduled dose. Drawing the blood at 9:00 am will give aslightly inaccurate trough level. Obtaining blood at 12:00 pm or 1:00 pm wouldbe appropriate for assessing peak vancomycin level, which should beobtained 1 to 2 hours after the IV dose is infused. Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 2 Oxygen saturations of less than 90% (0.90) indicate hypoxemia, so themost important action is to improve oxygenation. Sitting in a chair usuallyimproves gas exchange because the lungs can expand more easily. Mr. E'sanxiety is due to hypoxemia, so morphine (which may suppress respiratorydrive) is not an appropriate intervention to decrease anxiety. The assessmentshould be completed after interventions to improve oxygenation have beenimplemented. Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 1 The ABG results indicate that Mr. E is hypoxemic and has metabolicacidosis because of a cellular shift to the anaerobic metabolic pathway. Theseabnormalities should be corrected by increasing the Pao2 level. Thenonrebreather mask is capable of delivering Fio2 levels of close to 100% (1.00).He is hyperventilating in response to hypoxemia, so administering morphineis not indicated. Although the nurse will continue to monitor this client'srespiratory status, monitoring alone is not enough at this time. Focus:Prioritization.5. Ans: 3 The increase in white blood cell count is an indicator of infection, amajor concern in a client who has had a ruptured appendix. A change inantibiotic therapy may be needed. The nurse should also assess for other datathat might indicate developing sepsis in this client. The abnormalities in theother parameters indicate that ongoing monitoring of the complete bloodcount is necessary but do not require any acute interventions. Focus:Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Because not every abnormal laboratory valueindicates a need for immediate action by the nurse, good prioritizationrequires you to recognize which values indicate critical illness or need to becorrected quickly.6. Ans: 1 An RN with experience in caring for pediatric clients would be648familiar with the care of clients with infection and hyperglycemia, includingblood glucose monitoring and administration of insulin. The new graduatedoes not have enough experience to care independently for a client who isstill in somewhat unstable condition. Ms. O will require assessment andinterventions before the on-call RN will be able to arrive. The agency RN willnot be familiar with the location of supplies or with hospital policies, such asthe standard sliding-scale insulin protocol. Focus: Assignment.7. Ans: 4 The client's history of a ruptured appendix, elevated temperature andwhite blood cell count, tachycardia, elevated respiratory rate, and worseninghypoxemia even with increases in supplemental oxygen are most consistentwith ARDS associated with sepsis. The other complications may also causehypoxemia but are not supported by the data for this client. Aspirationpneumonia usually occurs in clients who are not alert or are unable to protecttheir airway. Wheezes caused by bronchoconstriction are heard with asthmaattacks, and breath sounds are absent on one side with pneumothorax. Focus:Prioritization.8. Ans: 2, 4, 1, 3 Using the SBAR format, the nurse first introduces himself orherself and then indicates the current client situation that requiresintervention. The nurse then gives pertinent background information aboutthe client. Next, the current pertinent assessment data and analysis of theclient's problem are communicated. Finally, the nurse makes arecommendation for the needed action. Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 1 Rapidly improving Mr. E's oxygenation is the priority. BiPAP providesnoninvasive positive-pressure ventilation, which can decrease the work ofbreathing and rapidly improve gas exchange. Transfer to the ICU isappropriate but does not need to be done before BiPAP is initiated.Administering a bronchodilator may be needed and specimens for culturewill be sent, but these should be done after starting BiPAP ventilation. Focus:Prioritization.10. Ans: 4 Current guidelines indicate that monitoring for carbon dioxideexhalation by continuous waveform capnography is the best choice forconfirmation and ongoing monitoring of ET placement. Other actionsperformed after intubation are listening for bilateral breath sounds, observingfor symmetrical chest wall movement with ventilation, and obtaining a chestradiograph. Monitoring of oxygen saturation is useful in assessing responseto treatment, but it is not the best indicator of correct ET placement, especiallyin severely hypoxemic clients. Focus: Prioritization.11. Ans: 3 Current evidence-based guidelines for mechanical ventilation inARDS suggest a Pao2 of 55 to 80 mm Hg as a goal; the Fio2 should bedecreased because exposure to high oxygen levels causes alveolar damage.Although the Paco2 is slightly elevated, mild hypercapnia is acceptableaccording to the most current research. Raising VT will increase the chance forcomplications such as pneumothorax. The CMV mode is generally used for649clients who are unconscious or paralyzed because it allows the client nocontrol of respirations and is very uncomfortable. Focus: Prioritization.12. Ans: 1, 5 The central venous pressure and urine output suggest that Mr. E ishypovolemic, so increasing his IV fluid intake is essential. Nutritionalinterventions are important in critically ill clients. Enteral feeding is thepreferred method for administering nutrition because the client has bowelsounds. Furosemide administration would lead to further dehydration.Because the client's hypotension and tachycardia are most likely caused byhypovolemia, norepinephrine and diltiazem are not appropriate. Focus:Prioritization.13. Ans: 3 Having a family member at the bedside will decrease the sense ofisolation and anxiety that occurs in the intensive care environment, especiallyin clients who cannot easily communicate because of intubation. Remindingthe client frequently not to pull at the tube may also be helpful. The othermethods listed may also be used, although restraints, antianxietymedications, and paralytic medications all have potential adverse effects.Restraints are sometimes needed in agitated or confused clients, although theneed for restraints must be reevaluated frequently. Many clients do benefitfrom the use of antianxiety medications, but excessive sedation should beavoided. The use of neuromuscular blockade or paralysis is avoided unless itis necessary to improve ABG values. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip:Remember that the least restrictive means for avoiding injury should be usedwhen there is a concern that clients may pull at tubes or other equipment.Less restrictive means usually include environmental controls, includingobservation by staff or family. More restrictive means include physicalrestraints or sedative medications.14. Ans: 4 The application of suction causes hypoxemia and trauma to thetracheal mucosa. Suction should only be applied to the catheter while it isbeing withdrawn to minimize these problems. Hyperoxygenation isnecessary before performing suction for a client who is at risk for hypoxemia,although 5 minutes of hyperoxygenation is usually not necessary. Use of aclosed-suction technique helps decrease the cost of suction catheters and ispreferred for clients receiving positive end-expiratory pressure ventilation,but an open-suction technique may also be used. Some clients may requiresedatives or analgesics before suctioning, although these are not routinelygiven. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 5 Current evidence-based recommendations for prevention ofVAP include avoiding sedation so that the client's ability to ventilateindependently can be evaluated more frequently, mobilizing the client toavoid muscle loss, keeping the head elevated to 30 to 45 degrees to helpprevent aspiration, and oral care with chlorhexidine solution. Currentresearch does not support the need for changing ventilator tubing every 24hours. Research suggests that small residual gastric volumes in clients whoare receiving enteral feedings do not increase aspiration risk and that650stopping feedings unnecessarily adversely affects nutritional status. Focus:Prioritization.16. Ans: 1, 4 LPN/LVN education includes skills such as providing oral care andtaking temperatures. Although unlicensed assistive personnel might also beable to do some of these activities in a stable client, more education is neededto provide oral care or take temperatures in a client who is intubated andreceiving mechanical ventilation. An experienced LPN/LVN would knowwhich client data need to be reported to the supervising RN immediately.Positioning a client is also included in LPN/LVN education; however, placinga client with an ET tube and central IV line in a prone position requiresmultiple staff members and should be supervised by the RN caring for theclient. ET tube suctioning may be delegated to an experienced LPN/LVN insome settings, but in a client in unstable condition, suctioning should be doneby the RN. Respiratory assessment of critically ill clients should be done bythe RN. Education of the critically ill client and family requires RN-levelassessment and planning. Focus: Assignment.17. Ans: 1 When an alarm sounds, the initial action should be to assess theclient. In this situation, the assessment of breath sounds, chest movement,and respiratory effort will help determine which respiratory complication theclient is experiencing. Depending on the assessment findings, the otheractions may also be necessary. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip:Because the plan of care is determined by client assessment data, rememberto question whether more data are needed before deciding which actions thenurse should take.18. Ans: 3 The absence of breath sounds on the right and the high pressuresneeded to ventilate the client suggest a tension pneumothorax caused bybarotrauma associated with positive-pressure ventilation and the use ofpositive end-expiratory pressure. Displacement of the ET tube into one sideor extubation also may lead to decreased breath sounds, but the ET tubeposition would change with these complications. Aspiration pneumonia is acommon complication but does not present with a sudden onset and absentbreath sounds. Focus: Prioritization.19. Ans: 1 Because the data indicate a likely pneumothorax, a chest tube willneed to be inserted by the HCP to allow reexpansion of the lung on theaffected side. This should take place quickly because the client's gas exchangewill be adversely affected by pneumothorax. The other actions are alsoappropriate, but the initial action will be notification of the HCP so that thepneumothorax can be rapidly treated. Focus: Prioritization.20. Ans: 4 With a tension pneumothorax, there are usually only a few millilitersof blood in the collection chamber because there is no blood or fluid trappedin the pleural space. The presence of 100 mL of blood indicates that there mayhave been trauma to the lung during the chest tube insertion. The other dataare expected with chest tube insertion and pneumothorax. The air leakshould be monitored, and analgesics should be used to control the pain Mr. E651is experiencing. Focus: Prioritization.21. Ans: 4 Mr. E has multiple risk factors for acute kidney injury, includingsepsis, dehydration, and use of the potentially nephrotoxic antibioticvancomycin. Acute kidney injury is one of the common complications ofARDS. The other laboratory values are also abnormal but do not indicate aneed for a change in therapy at present. Focus: Prioritization.652C A S E S T U D Y 1 8653Long-Term Care654QuestionsThe RN is the nursing supervisor for the evening shift at a 30-bed long-term carefacility (nursing home). The staff for the evening includes a licensed practicalnurse/licensed vocational nurse (LPN/LVN) and three unlicensed assistive personnel(UAP). During change-of-shift, report is given on the following six patients:• Mr. B is a 79-year-old man who underwent hip replacement surgery 3 days ago. Heneeds help getting out of bed, getting dressed, and ambulating. He was admittedyesterday from the hospital for rehabilitation.• Ms. R is an 86-year-old woman who has heart failure and type 2 diabetes and isrecovering from a recent myocardial infarction. She has an indwelling Foley catheter.She is usually alert, but she has become confused over the past 12 hours.• Mr. K is a 53-year-old man with a diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. He istotally dependent with regard to activities of daily living (ADLs) and has apercutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube through which he receivesintermittent feedings every 4 hours. He is incontinent of urine and stool. He has aliving will requesting that no heroic measures be used to prolong his life.• Ms. L is an 81-year-old woman with diagnoses of hypertension and Alzheimerdisease. She is confused, wanders off the unit when not watched, and needs remindersfor ADLs.• Mr. W is a 68-year-old man who has chronic kidney disease, coronary artery disease,and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. He is currently reporting shortness ofbreath and is receiving oxygen at 2 L/min via nasal cannula while lying in bed withhis head elevated. He needs help with ADLs.• Ms. Q is a 95-year-old woman with a diagnosis of osteoarthritis. She needs helpgetting out of bed, bathing, and dressing.1. During change-of-shift report, the day RN states that Mr. K has developedredness on his buttocks and that his incontinence pad has been changedevery 3 to 4 hours. What condition does the RN suspect is most likely?1. Pressure ulcer2. Incontinence-associated dermatitis (IAD)3. Skin lesion development4. Skin tears from mechanical shearing force2. The RN nursing supervisor is creating a care plan for Mr. K. Which key pointsshould be included? Select all that apply.1. Clean the affected area gently with minimal friction after each episode ofincontinence.2. Use regular soap and warm water to clean the patient.6553. Gently dry after each cleansing.4. Apply a skin protectant to all skin that could come into contact with urineor stool.5. Check skin protectant ingredients to be sure the patient is not allergic orsensitive.6. Alternate use of alkaline and acidic skin protectants for rapid skinimprovement.3. Which instruction would the RN be sure to give the UAP for moving andrepositioning Mr. K in bed?1. Turn and reposition Mr. K every 4 hours.2. Place Mr. K in supine position for napping.3. Keep the head of the bed (HOB) elevated at least 90 degrees while Mr. K isawake.4. Use a draw (pull) sheet to avoid friction skin tears.4. The care of which patients could the RN delegate to the UAP? Select all thatapply.1. Mr. B2. Ms. R3. Mr. K4. Ms. L5. Mr. W6. Ms. Q5. Which patient should the RN assess first?1. Ms. R2. Mr. K3. Mr. W4. Ms. Q6. Which aspect of patient care is most appropriately assigned by the RN to theLPN/LVN?1. Assisting Mr. B to ambulate to the end of the hall and back2. Administering Mr. K's 6:00 pm tube feeding3. Reminding Ms. L to use the bathroom every 4 hours4. Assessing Mr. W's oxygenation status7. Mr. W continues to report shortness of breath when the RN assesses him.Bilateral crackles are heard with auscultation, and the patient has aproductive cough with thick greenish sputum. What should the RN checknext?1. Oxygen saturation2. Blood pressure6563. Heart rate4. Urine output8. What is the priority nursing concern for Mr. W?1. Decreased perfusion2. Electrolyte imbalance3. Chest pain4. Poor gas exchange9. Mr. W's arterial oxygen saturation (SaO2) by pulse oximetry is now 89%. Whatis the RN's best first action?1. Increase his oxygen flow rate to 10 L/min via nasal cannula.2. Attempt to suction the patient's airway by the nasotracheal route.3. Assist the patient to lie down in bed.4. Notify the health care provider (HCP).The RN has received the following orders from Mr. W's HCP:• Obtain a sputum sample for culture and sensitivity testing.• Have the patient use incentive spirometry every 2 hours while awake.• Check pulse oximeter oxygen saturation (SpO2) every 4 hours.• Administer levofloxacin 250 mg PO twice daily.10. To which staff member would it be appropriate to assign carrying out all ofthese orders from the HCP?1. Experienced UAP2. Experienced LPN/LVN3. Newly graduated LPN/LVN4. RN supervisor11. The RN next assesses Ms. R, who has become confused during the past 12hours. The RN finds that Ms. R does not recognize anyone or know whereshe is. The UAP tells the RN that Ms. R has been incontinent with liquid stoolfor the past 2 days. The urine in her Foley catheter collection bag is dark witha strong odor. What complication is Ms. R most likely experiencing?1. Stroke2. Pneumonia3. Myocardial infarction4. Urinary tract infection (UTI)12. The RN notifies Ms. R's HCP about the assessment findings. Which HCP andnursing orders will the RN assign to the UAP? Select all that apply.1. Obtain a urine sample for culture and sensitivity testing.6572. Administer diphenoxylate 5 mg PO every 6 hours until liquid stoolsresolve.3. Give ciprofloxacin 250 mg PO every 12 hours for 3 days.4. Reorient the patient to time, date, and place as needed.5. Check the patient for liquid stools at least every 2 hours.6. Obtain a stool sample for ova and parasite testing.13. Which HCP and nursing orders are most appropriately assigned to theLPN/LVN? Select all that apply.1. Obtain a urine sample for culture and sensitivity testing.2. Administer diphenoxylate 5 mg PO every 6 hours until liquid stoolsresolve.3. Give ciprofloxacin 250 mg PO every 12 hours for 3 days.4. Reorient the patient to time, date, and place as needed.5. Check the patient for liquid stools at least every 2 hours.6. Perform catheter care every shift.14. Near the end of the shift, the RN reassesses Mr. W. He reports that hisbreathing is better. The UAP tells the RN that his latest pulse oximetryreading is 90%. What is the RN's best action?1. Notify the HCP.2. Decrease the oxygen flow.3. Document the findings as the only action.4. Instruct the night shift UAP to wake Mr. W every hour for incentivespirometry.15. The UAP reports that Mr. B, who had hip replacement surgery 3 days ago,refuses to get out of bed to walk in the hall as ordered. What is the RN's bestfirst action?1. Ask the LPN/LVN to administer as needed (PRN) pain medication.2. Tell the UAP that Mr. B must get up to prevent pneumonia.3. Remind the UAP that Mr. B has the right to refuse.4. Assess Mr. B for the reason he does not want to get up.16. Mr. B tells the RN that he was taking a nap when the UAP woke him to getup and walk. He reports that he did not sleep well last night because of beingin a strange setting and was angry at being awakened. What are the RN's bestactions at this time? Select all that apply.1. Ask Mr. B if he is willing to get up and walk now.2. Remind Mr. B that there are 30 patients who need care.3. Offer Mr. B PRN pain medication before he gets up to walk.4. Instruct the UAP never to wake a patient from a nap.5. Discuss strategies to help Mr. B achieve good rest at night.6586. Teach Mr. B the importance of preventing respiratory problems.17. Ms. Q, with osteoarthritis, refuses to take her evening dose of calciumbecause it makes her stomach upset. What is the priority teaching from theRN for the LPN/LVN at this time?1. Tell the LPN/LVN that Ms. Q must take her calcium because she is at riskfor fractures.2. Suggest rescheduling the dose time so that Ms. Q receives the calcium withfood.3. Remind the LPN/LVN that calcium is best absorbed on an empty stomach.4. Instruct the LPN/LVN to hold the dose and notify the provider.18. Ms. L, with Alzheimer disease, wanders into Mr. K's room. The LPN/LVNfinds her disconnecting Mr. K's tube feeding. “Hello, dearie, I was justcleaning this up for you,” Ms. L tells the LPN/LVN. What is the best actionfor the LPN/LVN to take at this time?1. In a loud and stern voice, tell Ms. L that this is not her room.2. Ask the UAP to escort Ms. L back to her room and keep her there.3. Gently reorient Ms. L and reconnect Mr. K's tube feeding.4. Remind Ms. L that she is not a nurse but a patient and should never botherother patients.19. Mr. K's mother comes running out of his room yelling, “He's dying! Call 911!Hurry, hurry!” What is the RN's best action at this time?1. Call the life squad because the mother's wishes supersede Mr. K’s.2. Call the RN supervisor and ask what you should do.3. Begin cardiopulmonary resuscitation and continue until the life squadarrives.4. Assess Mr. K's status and respect his wishes.659Answer Key1. Ans: 2 IAD describes the skin damage associated with exposure to urine orstool. It causes considerable discomfort and can be difficult, time consuming,and expensive to treat. It is an irritant contact dermatitis (inflammation) oftenfound in patients with urinary or stool incontinence. IAD appears aserythema and can range from pink to red. Patients with IAD are at increasedrisk for skin infections, especially candidiasis. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 1, 3, 4, 5 Principles of cleaning to prevent and manage IAD includecleanse daily and after every episode of stool incontinence; use gentletechnique with minimal friction and avoid rubbing or scrubbing of skin;avoid standard (alkaline) soaps; choose a gentle, no-rinse liquid skin cleanseror premoistened wipe (designed and indicated for incontinence care), with apH similar to normal skin; use a soft, disposable nonwoven cloth; and gentlydry skin if needed after cleansing. Principles of skin protectant use to avoidor manage IAD include apply the skin protectant at a frequency consistentwith its ability to protect the skin and in line with the manufacturer'sinstructions, ensure the skin protectant is compatible with any other skin careproducts (e.g., skin cleansers that are in use), and apply the skin protectant toall skin that comes into contact with or potentially will contact urine or stool.Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 4 Friction occurs when surfaces rub the skin and irritate or tear fragileepithelial tissue. Such forces are generated when the patient is dragged orpulled across bed linen. Use of a pull or draw sheet when moving a patient inbed helps prevent this type of skin injury. Patient turn schedules should beevery 2 hours but also should be individualized based on needs. Supineposition is not appropriate for a patient with a feeding tube because ofincreased risk for aspiration. Ninety-degree HOB elevation is likely too highfor comfort for most patients. Focus: Delegation, Supervision; Test TakingTip: Mr. K is already at risk for injury related to loss of skin integrity. Thenurse would want to be sure that the UAP's action with regard to turning andrepositioning the patient do not increase that risk as well as the risk forinfection.4. Ans: 1, 4, 6 Although aspects of care for all six patients could be delegated tothe UAP, Mr. B, Ms. L, and Ms. Q all need assistance with ADLs, which fallwithin the scope of practice of the UAP. Ms. R's change in level ofconsciousness needs to be assessed because this is a change from her baseline.Many aspects of Mr. K's care can be assigned to UAP, but his tube feedingand the newly developed redness on his buttocks need the attention of alicensed nurse. Mr. W's difficulty with breathing also requires assessmentfrom a licensed nurse because this is a change from his baseline. Focus:Delegation.5. Ans: 3 Mr. W is having difficulty breathing, which could be life threatening.660Ms. R needs to be assessed second to determine the reason for her confusion.Mr. K's new finding of redness on his buttocks also needs to be assessed.None of the other patients’ conditions are life threatening or unstable. Focus:Prioritization.6. Ans: 2 This is an oral feeding that is within the scope of practice of anLPN/LVN. The scope of practice of UAP includes assisting a patient toambulate and reminding a patient to use the bathroom. Assessing Mr. W'soxygenation status is more appropriately done by an RN. Focus: Assignment.7. Ans: 1 Checking oxygen saturation via pulse oximetry will give the RNimportant information about Mr. W's oxygenation status and a possiblereason for why he is experiencing difficulty breathing. Although checkingblood pressure, urine output, and heart rate are important, they do not takefirst priority at this time. Focus: Prioritization.8. Ans: 4 The priority concern for Mr. W at this time is difficulty breathing andgas exchange. There is no indication that he is experiencing electrolyteimbalance, and he does not report chest pain. Decreased peripheral perfusionis also not a priority at this time. Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 4 Mr. W has crackles, a productive cough, and decreased gas exchange.The provider needs to be notified because these signs and symptoms mayindicate a respiratory infection that needs to be treated. Patients with chronicobstructive pulmonary disease should receive low-flow oxygen (3 L/min orless) because their stimulus to breathe is a low oxygen level. The patient isalready having shortness of breath, which may be worsened with attempts tosuction or to lay the patient flat in bed. Focus: Prioritization.10. Ans: 2 All of the nursing responsibilities associated with the provider'sorders are within the scope of practice of an LPN/LVN, but some, such asgiving medications, are not within the scope of a UAP. Because Mr. W isexperiencing changes, an experienced LPN/LVN would be preferred to a newgraduate. The nurse supervisor can direct the LPN/LVN to update the RNregularly regarding Mr. W's condition. The nursing supervisor is responsiblefor ensuring that all of the patient care is provided during the shift. Focus:Assignment.11. Ans: 4 The changes in Ms. R's urine, presence of an indwelling catheter, andfecal incontinence point to increased risk for a UTI. In older adults, suddenconfusion is often a sign of UTI onset. The confusion and communicationissues should resolve when the infection is treated. The patient does notexhibit signs of stroke, pneumonia, or myocardial infarction. Focus:Prioritization.12. Ans: 1, 4, 5, 6 All of these orders are within the scope of practice of a UAPexcept giving medications. Focus: Delegation.13. Ans: 2, 3 Although all of these HCP and nursing orders fall within the scopeof practice of an LPN/LVN, all except giving medications can be assigned toUAP. Administering medications is usually not within the scope of practice661of UAP. In some states, long-term care facilities employ medication UAPs.However, these UAPs must complete a special state-approved program andmust demonstrate competency to take a pulse and measure blood pressure.Be sure to check the scope of practice limits for the specific state and facility.Focus: Assignment, Supervision.14. Ans: 3 Mr. W is much improved. A pulse oximetry reading of 90% isacceptable for a patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and theoxygen flow does not need to be changed. Waking the patient every hour forincentive spirometry is counterproductive because the patient will not get therest he needs. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: When a patient is muchimproved and assessment findings are within normal limits, the RN's mainresponsibility is to document the changes.15. Ans: 4 The RN's priority at this time is to assess the patient because he or sheneeds to know why Mr. B does not want to get up and walk before takingaction. Pain may be the reason, but that is not known until the patient isassessed. Patients do have the right to refuse treatment, but the purpose ofMr. B's admission is rehabilitation so that he can go home, and earlyambulation is important in the prevention of respiratory complications. Thefirst priority is assessment to gather more information. Focus: Prioritization.16. Ans: 1, 3, 5, 6 Mr. B does need to get up and walk. Administering his PRNpain medication may facilitate this. It is important to be attentive to theunderlying problem and to strategize how to ensure that he receivesappropriate rest, which will aid his recovery. If he is unaware of therespiratory risks associated with failing to ambulate, this is a teachingopportunity. It is not appropriate to belittle Mr. B's concerns by remindinghim of the other patients’ needs. Although the RN may want to talk with theUAP about getting more information and allowing patients to rest, there maybe times when it is important to awaken patients from naps. Focus:Prioritization.17. Ans: 2 A fairly common side effect of calcium therapy is gastrointestinalupset with nausea and vomiting, and giving this drug with food canminimize or eliminate this side effect. Although Ms. Q is at risk for fractures,this answer does not focus on the problem. Giving the drug on an emptystomach will most likely make the nausea and vomiting worse. Holding thedose does not focus on the problem. Focus: Prioritization.18. Ans: 3 Ms. L is confused and should respond better to a gentle reorientationthan to a loud, stern reprimand. The priority is ensuring that Mr. K's tubefeeding is restarted; then the LPN/LVN could escort Ms. L back to her roomor delegate this to the UAP. When Ms. L is being reoriented, the LPN/LVNshould remind her that she is a patient. The fourth response could sounddisrespectful toward Ms. L. Focus: Prioritization, Assignment.19. Ans: 4 Mr. K's living will is a legal document and must be respected. Thenurse should assess his status and check his advance directive document to662make sure it is current and then respect his wishes. The nurse would call theprovider with notification of the patient's death. The nurse should take hismother into a quiet room, calmly remind her of his wishes, have someonestay with her, and ask if there is someone who can be called for her (e.g., aspiritual advisor or another family member). Focus: Prioritization.663C A S E S T U D Y 1 9664Pediatric Clients in Clinic and AcuteCare Settings665QuestionsThe charge nurse is working in a large urban pediatric walk-in clinic that offers wellbabycare, provides immunizations, and is an educational resource for child healthtopics. In addition, the clinic also accommodates walk-in clients and offers basicdiagnostic testing and emergency care. The staff includes a pediatrician, a graduatestudent who is working toward an advanced practice nursing (APN) degree, anexperienced RN, an experienced licensed practical nurse/licensed vocational nurse(LPN/LVN), a pediatric social worker, a new graduate nurse (GN), and an unlicensedassistive personnel (UAP). This morning, in addition to scheduled appointments, thereis an immunization clinic. The charge nurse receives two phone calls, and there is onewalk-in client.1. To ensure efficient workflow of the clinic and maximize available expertise,which task should be assigned to the experienced LPN/LVN?1. Perform triage for walk-in clients.2. Perform physical assessment of walk-in clients.3. Give routine immunizations.4. Obtain weight and height measurements.2. A mother brings her 12-month-old child to the clinic for an influenzavaccination. The RN tells the mother that the child is also due for doses ofmeasles-mumps-rubella, varicella, and hepatitis A vaccines. The motherdeclines the nurse's advice because “he has already had enough of those.”What is the priority action?1. Encourage a follow-up appointment and notify Child Protective Services.2. Assess the mother's concerns and current level of knowledge aboutimmunization.3. Emphasize the benefits of immunization; explain the purpose and schedule.4. Respect the mother's decision and alert the pediatrician to the situation.3. A 9-month-old child arrives at the health center with his mother forimmunizations. The child is fussy with rhinorrhea and has an axillarytemperature of 100.4°F (38°C). The pediatrician has determined that the childhas nasopharyngitis. What is the priority action?1. Administer half of the immunizations and reschedule a subsequentappointment for the other half.2. Advise the mother that fever is a contraindication for immunization andreschedule the appointment.3. Administer acetaminophen to reduce fever and apply an anesthetic creamto the injection site.6664. Advise the mother that the child will likely need an antibiotic andreschedule the appointment.4. A parent calls in for advice because her 18-month-old toddler has stumbledand bumped his head on the coffee table. Which symptom is cause for thegreatest concern?1. A swelling the size of a golf ball that is tender to the touch2. Two episodes of vomiting a small amount of undigested food3. Continuous crying for 2 hours, unrelieved by familiar comfort measures4. Gaping 1.5-inch (4-cm) laceration on the forehead, with bleeding controlledby pressure5. A parent calls in for advice because “Missy is 5 years old, and she just won’tsleep in her own bed. For the past 4 months, she wakes and comes to sleepwith me and my husband. She cries and cries if we take her back to her ownroom.” What is the priority action?1. Send the mother a brochure of things she can try to assist the child to sleepindependently.2. Advise the mother that this is a normal behavior that will eventually passwith time.3. Suggest that the child be put back into her own bed and allowed to cryherself to sleep.4. Schedule an appointment with the APN student for assessment andmanagement.6. Six-year-old Billy woke last night with dyspnea, restlessness, wheezing, andcough. Mother and child spent the night in a reclining chair. His motherdeclares, “He is having an asthma attack. We are both exhausted. I’m tired ofwaiting forever to see the doctor!” What is the priority nursing concern?1. Billy's poor sleep quality and restlessness2. Billy's ongoing shortness of breath3. Mother's report of feeling exhausted4. Mother's frustration with health care system7. As the nurse approaches Billy, which presentation would be of most concernand require immediate intervention?1. Alert and irritable, lying recumbent on the examination table2. Awake and nervous, sitting upright and crying, skin pale and dry3. Agitated, sweating, and sitting upright with shoulders hunched forward4. Asleep in a side-lying position breathing through open mouth8. Which assessment finding for Billy is the most urgent and requiresimmediate intervention and notification of the pediatrician?1. Sudden increase in respiratory rate and decreased breath sounds2. Rattling cough productive of frothy, clear, gelatinous sputum6673. Crackles auscultated on inspiration in the lower lung fields4. Restlessness and wheezing auscultated at the end of expiration9. As the nurse cares for Billy and addresses his asthmatic condition, in whatsequence should the following prescribed actions be implemented?1. Administer IV methylprednisolone.2. Contact the hospital about admission.3. Give nebulized albuterol now and every 30 minutes.4. Teach about measuring peak expiratory flow rate to determine personalbest.5. Obtain a chest radiograph and a complete blood count (CBC).6. Administer humidified oxygen to maintain saturation above 90%.7. Schedule a radioallergosorbent test._____, _____, _____, _____, _____, ____, _____10. Billy is to be transferred from the clinic to the hospital for his asthmaticcondition. Which tasks are RN responsibilities and should not be delegated orperformed by another member of the health care team? Select all that apply.1. Give a report to the attending pediatrician at the receiving hospital.2. Give a report to the charge nurse at the receiving hospital.3. Help the parent and child to collect and bag up personal items.4. Determine that the client's condition is stable enough for transport to thehospital.5. Assess the response to treatment and document the client's condition.6. Assist the client to transfer to the ambulance stretcher.11. In the afternoon, several clients come to the clinic for walk-in care. Prioritizethe following clients in the order in which they should be seen to ensure safecare and efficiently manage client load.1. Daisy is 4 years old; she is alert and irritable with pale, sweaty skin. Anolder neighbor who was temporarily watching Daisy reports that she wasrunning around and playing, and then she got “grumpy.” Daisy hasdiabetes, but the neighbor “was not sure how to give her the insulin.”2. Sarah is 11 months old; she is dirty and crying, and her right arm is swollenand red. Sam is Sarah's 2-year-old brother; he is dirty and hungry andreaches out to be picked up. Ms. A, their mother, is 19 years old and single.She is thin and disheveled and seems somewhat confused. She is havingtrouble answering the nurse's questions. Ms. A says, “Those kids play toorough! The older one is always pushing the baby off the bed.”3. Terry is 7 months old; he rubs at both of his ears, acts fussy, refuses to suck,and has a temperature of 101.2°F (38.4°C). He has had three episodes ofotitis media in the past. Social history includes being bottle-fed and havingparents who are both smokers.4. James is 3 years old. He awakened last night with a sore throat, difficulty668swallowing, and a fever. He is flushed, anxious, and drooling. The nurseobserves a thick, muffled quality to his voice and slow, quiet breathing.The nurse notes that James looks sick._____, _____, _____, _____12. What is the priority concern for James (refer to question 11)?1. Fever2. Drooling3. Sore throat4. Flushing13. What is the priority action for James (refer to question 11)?1. Visually inspect the throat with a tongue blade and auscultate the lungs.2. Administer humidified oxygen and have the child sit upright on a parent'slap.3. Notify the pediatrician and prepare intubation equipment.4. Reassure the parents the symptoms will resolve with breathing of coolmoist air.14. The APN student and the pediatrician are at James’ bedside. Which twoadditional team members would be the best combination to provide theinitial care for James (refer to question 11)?1. The experienced RN and the experienced LPN/LVN2. The experienced RN and the UAP3. The experienced RN and the GN4. The experienced LPN/LVN and the GN15. The pediatrician examines James and determines that he should be takenimmediately to the Children's Hospital emergency department (ED). Thechild is breathing slowly and quietly; humidified oxygen is beingadministered. What is the priority action?1. Instruct the parents to drive the child to the hospital immediately and callthe ED.2. Contact a private ambulance service and prepare the client for transport.3. Call 911, ask for advanced emergency medical services (EMS), and monitorthe child.4. Assist the pediatrician to intubate the child and then arrange for transport.16. Daisy (refer to question 11) has type 1 diabetes. She is currently alert butirritable. She looks pale and her skin is clammy. What is the priority actionfor Daisy?1. Locate the mother to obtain a history and permission to treat.2. Administer supplemental oxygen, alert the pediatrician, and establish IVaccess.3. Ask the child to describe how she feels and use simple questions to obtain a669history.4. Perform blood glucose testing and then give the child a carton of milk.17. Daisy's mother arrives at the clinic, and she is relieved to find Daisy happyand smiling, but the mother bursts into tears and begins to yell at herneighbor and the nursing staff for “not taking care of her!” What is the bestway to handle her anger and tears?1. Remind the mother that the child is okay and that the neighbor was doingwhat she thought was best based on the information that she had.2. Allow the mother to express her feelings and then take the neighbor asideand explain that the mother is just temporarily upset.3. Teach the mother about ways to communicate the child's needs to allcaregivers and help her make a list of specific instructions.4. Direct the mother to a private area and encourage her to ventilate feelings;then gently assess how she typically manages Daisy's diabetes.18. What is the priority nursing concern for Terry, who is rubbing at his ears,acting fussy, refusing to suck, and has a temperature of 101.2°F (38.4°C)?1. Pain2. Poor nutrition3. Recurrent ear infections4. Elevated temperature19. For 7-month old Terry (refer to question 11), which task would beappropriate to assign to the LPN/LVN?1. Teach parents that passive smoking and bottle feeding contribute to earinfections.2. Explain the concept of “watchful waiting” for 72 hours for uncomplicatedotitis.3. Administer ordered dose of acetaminophen and apply a warm moistcompress to pinna.4. Prepare the child for a myringotomy and assist the pediatrician during theprocedure.20. The GN is preparing to give an antibiotic tablet to 7-month-old Terry. Shechecks a drug reference book, crushes the tablet, and then mixes it into 3 oz(84 grams) of applesauce. As the supervising nurse, what is the priorityaction?1. Accompany her into the room and observe while she administers the drug.2. Allow her to proceed independently and ask her to report on the outcome.3. Suggest that she reconsider the client's circumstances and developmentalneeds.4. Suggest that she recheck the drug reference book before administering thedrug.67021. What is the priority nursing concern in caring for the A family? (Refer toquestion 11 for a description of the A family's circumstances.)1. Hygiene2. Safety3. Development4. Growth22. Which tasks related to the care of Sarah, Sam, and Ms. A can be delegated tothe UAP? Select all that apply.1. Assist the toddler to eat an age-appropriate meal.2. Apply a supportive splint to the infant's arm.3. Report any behavioral signs of child abuse.4. Report any findings to Child Protective Services if appropriate.5. Assist by holding one child while the other is being examined.6. Accompany the infant to the radiology department.23. The pediatric social worker has just informed Ms. A that Child ProtectiveServices has been notified and that a representative will arrive shortly tospeak with her about the family's situation. Ms. A starts to cry and threatensto leave. What is the priority action?1. Obtain an “against medical advice” (AMA) form and have her sign it.2. Notify the pediatrician of the mother's intent to leave.3. Inform the mother that the police will be notified if she leaves.4. Encourage Ms. A to remain and to express feelings and fears.Rebecca is a 6-year-old girl with cystic fibrosis. She arrives at the pediatric cysticfibrosis clinic for her routine 3-month appointment. The nurse obtains and calculatesthe following growth parameters: Weight, 33 lbs (15 kg) (< 5%); height, 42 in.(106 cm) (5%); and body mass index (BMI), 13 (< 5%). Her parents report specks ofblood in her sputum after chest physiotherapy. Her forced expiratory volume in 1second (FEV1) has decreased 25% from her last visit 3 months ago. Rebecca hasclubbing of both her finger and toe nails.24. How would the nurse best interpret Rebecca's decreased FEV1?1. Decreased oxygenation2. Increased obstruction3. Presence of infection4. Pulmonary remodeling25. What is the most likely cause of the specks of blood in Rebecca's sputum?1. A sign of pulmonary infection6712. A sign of bronchial remodeling3. A sign of gastric irritation4. A sign of gastrointestinal bleeding26. The nurse establishes that Rebecca has poor airway clearance. Whichintervention is most important for the nurse to implement for this problem?1. Increased fluid requirements2. Inhaled corticosteroids3. Oxygen therapy4. Flutter valve with huffing27. The nurse reviews Rebecca's growth chart and determines her weight andBMI have consistently remained below the 5th percentile. Whichcollaborative intervention is the nurse most likely to anticipate whenplanning teaching?1. Preparing the child and family for potential gastrostomy tube placement2. Focusing on increasing the child's intake of protein and calories3. Suggesting an increased dosage of pancreatic enzymes4. Preparing the child and family for potential total parenteral nutrition28. Which laboratory value is consistent with clubbing of Rebecca's finger andtoe nails?1. Elevated white blood cell (WBC) count2. Elevated red blood cell (RBC) count3. Decreased hematocrit4. Decreased mean corpuscular volumeFour-year-old Bobby is admitted to the pediatric unit with Kawasaki disease. Today isthe 7th day of fever. Laboratory studies reveal C-reactive protein of 3.1 mg/dL (29.5mmol/L) and a WBC count of 17,000 mm3 (17 × 109/L).29. Which nursing assessment is a priority?1. Obtain a rectal temperature.2. Auscultate the lungs.3. Obtain a blood pressure.4. Auscultate the heart.30. Which pharmacologic intervention should the nurse anticipate at this time?1. IV methylprednisolone2. IV immunoglobulin3. IV ibuprofen4. IV infliximab67231. After a 14-day hospitalization, Bobby is discharged home on a regimen oflong-term aspirin therapy. What advice should the nurse provide regardinginfluenza vaccination?1. Influenza vaccine is indicated for children 4 months to 18 years of age.2. Influenza vaccine should be postponed for 11 months after treatment.3. Influenza vaccine is indicated for children receiving long-term aspirintherapy.4. Influenza vaccine should be postponed in children receiving long-termaspirin therapy.Eight-year-old Charlie had a laparoscopic appendectomy. During surgery, the appendixperforated. Charlie arrives on the pediatric unit from the operating room. His weighton admission was 46 lbs (21 kg). He has a peripheral IV line in the left basilic vein withD5W and 20 mEq/L (20 mmol/L) of KCl running at 70 mL/hr. A nasogastric tube(NG) is attached to low suction.32. Which assessment should be most concerning to the nurse?1. Oral temperature of 100.4°F (38°C)2. Decreased bowel sounds in all quadrants3. Urine output of 160 mL over 4 hours4. Respiratory rate of 15 breaths per minute33. Charlie's parents ask the nurse if the NG tube can be removed because it isirritating Charlie's nose. What is the nurse's best response?1. “The NG tube is necessary to prevent aspiration of the stomach contentsinto the lungs.”2. “The NG tube is necessary because Charlie will need to have feedingsthrough it.”3. “The NG tube is necessary to keep Charlie's stomach empty, allowing theintestines to rest.”4. “The NG tube is necessary to prevent swallowed air from building up inthe stomach.”34. The nurse performs a pain assessment. Charlie rates his pain as 4 of 10 onthe Wong-Baker FACES® Pain Rating Scale. Which intervention should thenurse implement?1. Administer 200 mg of ibuprofen.2. Administer 5 mg of hydrocodone.3. Administer 100 mg of acetaminophen.4. Administer 10 mg of codeine.35. At the change of shift, the nurse reassesses Charlie. His NG tube is patent673and drained 120 mL over 12 hours. His oral temperature is 99.5°F (37.5°C),heart rate is 80 beats/min, and respiratory rate is 17 breaths/min. Charlieappears groggy and confused. Charlie's muscle strength is 3 of 5 in his upperand lower extremities. Laboratory tests are ordered. Which results are mostconsistent with Charlie's clinical presentation?1. K +, 3.3 mEq/L (3.3 mmol/L); Cl-, 95 mEq/L (95 mmol/L); pH, 7.552. K +, 3.3 mEq/L (3.3 mmol/L); Cl-, 110 mEq/L (110 mmol/L); pH, 7.553. K +, 5.2 mEq/L (5.2 mmol/L); Cl-, 110 mEq/L (110 mmol/L); pH, 7.204. K +, 3.3 mEq/L (3.3 mmol/L); Cl-, 95 mEq/L (95 mmol/L); pH, 7.20674Answer Key1. Ans: 3 LPN/LVN skills are appropriate for giving routine immunizations; theRN or GN could also give injections, but in a busy clinic the RN shouldperform triage and initial physical assessment and mentor the GN in thesetasks. Obtaining height and weight should be delegated to the UAP. Thepediatrician will perform physical assessments of all walk-in clients andsupervise the APN student who can perform physical assessment and triage.Focus: Assignment.2. Ans: 2 First the nurse should assess the mother's decision and her level ofknowledge. She may not understand the pharmacology of immunizations, orthe child may have had a problem with previous immunizations. She hasagreed to immunizations in the past, but now something has changed hermind. Other options may be appropriate depending on the assessmentfindings. Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 3 Acetaminophen will reduce the child's fever, and an anesthetic creamwill reduce pain at the injection site. By taking this action, the nurse ispreparing to give the child the recommended immunizations. Fever andminor illnesses are not a contraindication for immunizations.Nasopharyngitis is a common cold that is caused by a virus, and antibioticsare not indicated for viruses. Additionally, antibiotics are not acontraindication for immunizations. Splitting immunizations is notrecommended because it would result in immunization delay. Thescheduling of immunizations is such that it protects children at times whenthey are most vulnerable to morbidity and mortality related to the naturaldiseases. Delayed immunization places the child at risk for vaccinepreventablediseases. Focus: Prioritization.4. Ans: 3 Inconsolable crying for 2 hours is excessive, prolonged, and abnormaland may be a sign of increased intracranial pressure (ICP). Instruct the parentto call 911. The swelling can be treated with ice packs. Vomiting can be a signof increased ICP, but fewer than three episodes is usually associated withminor injuries. A laceration on the forehead needs suturing, which should bedone within several hours to prevent infection and reduce scarring, but themore pressing issue is to reaffirm with the caller that the bleeding iscontrolled. Focus: Prioritization.5. Ans: 4 Additional psychosocial and physical assessment is needed tointervene properly. The other three options may be appropriate after initialassessment is completed. Focus: Prioritization.6. Ans: 2 The priority is the child's ongoing dyspnea, which indicates poorcontrol of his asthma and possible hypoxemia. Additionally, restlessness is aclinical manifestation of impending respiratory failure. This requires rapidintervention. The mother's exhaustion should improve with treatment for the675asthma attack. The mother's frustration with Billy's health care is important toaddress, but this is not immediately life threatening. Focus: Prioritization.7. Ans: 3 Agitation and sweating are signs of severe respiratory distress. Inaddition, the child is attempting to maximize the thoracic cavity and tooxygenate more effectively by sitting upright and hunching forward. Focus:Prioritization.8. Ans: 1 An increased respiratory rate and decreased breath sounds areominous signs of airway obstruction. Respiratory arrest is imminent. Aproductive cough warrants close observation because the client is at risk formucus plugs and bronchial spasm, which can cause an obstruction.Restlessness and wheezing are characteristic clinical manifestations of anasthma exacerbation and require attention but are not urgent. Crackles aresuggestive of pneumonia and need to be monitored but are not the priority inthis scenario. Respiratory arrest is the life-threatening event that the nursemust address. Focus: Prioritization.9. Ans: 3, 6, 1, 5, 2, 4, 7 Dyspnea and restlessness are clinical manifestations ofimpending respiratory failure. Wheezing and cough indicatebronchoconstriction. This requires rapid intervention. The onset of action ofnebulized albuterol is 5 to 7 minutes. Administering albuterol first results inbronchodilation, which is essential for oxygen to actually reach the airways.Humidified oxygen can then be administered because albuterol results inbronchodilation, which allows oxygen to enter the lungs. In acuteexacerbations of asthma, short-acting beta2 agonists are given followed bycorticosteroid therapy. The onset of action for methylprednisolone is 1 to 2hours. A chest radiograph and CBC are appropriate to determine underlyingpathology such as infection that may contribute to the episode. Arrangementsshould be made to transfer the client to the hospital after the client's conditionhas been stabilized. Measuring peak flow rates to determine personal best ispart of long-term management and client education. Radioallergosorbenttesting can be scheduled on an outpatient basis. Focus: Prioritization; TestTaking Tip: Understanding both the action and the onset of action ofmedications facilitates prioritization.10. Ans: 2, 5 The RN must give the nursing report to the receiving nurse andassess response to treatment and document the client's condition. Thepediatrician must give the physician-to-physician report and determine if theclient's is stable enough for transfer. The RN can delegate to the UAP:collecting of personal items and helping the client to transfer. The RN mustsupervise and know that the UAP has had proper training to handle clientbelongings and in transfer techniques to prevent injury to self or client.Focus: Supervision, Assignment, Delegation.11. Ans: 4, 1, 2, 3 James' condition is the most critical. He has airwaycompromise that could suddenly turn into a complete airway obstruction.Daisy is the next in priority. Although she is conscious, she cannot be allowedto continue unattended for a long period. At a minimum, delegate676performing a blood glucose check to the LPN/LVN (or UAP if appropriatetraining has been given) with instructions that the results be reported to theRN immediately. Sarah, Sam, and Ms. A have complex social circumstancesthat will be very time consuming to address; however, this family is a flightrisk. Quickly check on the A family and alert all staff members about theneed to support this family. Terry has a treatable ear infection; treatment andeducation are relatively straightforward. Then go back and do an in-depthassessment of the A family. Focus: Prioritization.12. Ans: 2 James has symptoms of epiglottitis and is at high risk for an airwayobstruction. Drooling is a classic symptom of epiglottitis and indicates thatairway obstruction may be imminent. The other data are relevant andsupport the epiglottitis diagnosis but do not indicate a need for immediateaction. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Be able to differentiate amongclinical manifestations that are characteristic of a disease and those thatindicate a severe consequence of a disease. In the case of epiglottitis, droolingindicates airway obstruction.13. Ans: 2 The child has an immediate need for oxygen. An upright positionfacilitates breathing, and parental comfort minimizes agitation and crying,which would increase oxygen consumption. Inspecting the throat iscontraindicated because the procedure could exacerbate airway obstruction.Intubation equipment should always be available but is not needed yet;however, the pediatrician should be made aware of the child's drooling.(Note: If the clinic were attached to a hospital, the nurse could alert theoperating room about the need for a potential emergency intubation,tracheostomy, or both.) Reassuring the parents that the condition will resolvespontaneously is inappropriate. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 3 In addition to the APN student and the pediatrician, the bestcombination would be the experienced RN and GN. The child is acutely illand may require immediate intervention for airway management. This is anopportunity for the experienced RN to closely supervise and mentor the GN.In the initial care of this child, there are few tasks that can be delegated to theUAP, and the expertise of the LPN/LVN is best used to monitor and assessother clients in more stable condition. Focus: Supervision, Assignment.15. Ans: 3 In a clinic setting, calling 911 is the best and safest option. Directingthe parent to drive would be considered dangerous malpractice. There is awide variation in skill set among ambulance drivers, but advanced EMSparamedics that respond to 911 calls are routinely trained to intubate.Although the pediatrician is qualified to intubate, this is not a typical task in aclinic setting, and prophylactically intubating the child at this point would beinappropriate. Focus: Prioritization.16. Ans: 4 Based on the available information, the nurse would suspect andconfirm hypoglycemia and then give food or fluids to prevent complications.According to the American Diabetes Association, milk is better than juicebecause blood glucose level is stabilized by the lactose, fat, and protein. The677mother should be notified and advised to come to the clinic; however,emergency treatments would not be delayed if she cannot be located. Askingthe child to describe how she feels is appropriate, but taking time to elicitdetails of history from a 4-year-old child with hypoglycemia is not a good useof time in the immediate situation. The pediatrician should be alerted aboutthe child's condition; however, oxygen is not needed, and it is unlikely thatIV access is required at this time. Focus: Prioritization.17. Ans: 4 The mother is very emotional, and she must be allowed to express herfeelings first. In addition, accusing others of “not taking care of her” suggeststhat the mother may be using the defense mechanism of projection(transferring feelings and inadequacies of self onto others). Her anger andfear may be related to guilt for not appropriately informing the neighborabout the child's health condition. The nurse could consider using the otherthree options after allowing the mother to express herself and furtherassessing the situation. Focus: Prioritization.18. Ans: 1 Acute otitis media is painful, and the child is demonstratingbehaviors indicative of pain. Symptoms are relieved with acetaminophen andapplication of a warm, moist towel to the outer ear. Poor nutrition and lack offluid intake are concerns, but relief of pain will likely improve the child'swillingness to suck and improve oral intake. The other concerns are pertinentbut less urgent. Focus: Prioritization.19. Ans: 3 The LPN/LVN can administer medication and apply warmcompresses for comfort. Teaching of the parents about the impact of passivesmoking and bottle feeding should be done by the RN. “Watchful waiting” isnot usually done for infants of this age with bilateral otitis media, but wouldcertainly require teaching by the RN about what type of symptoms indicatethat further treatment is needed. A myringotomy (surgical opening of theeardrum) would be performed after antibiotic treatment if pain and infectiondid not resolve. Focus: Assignment.20. Ans: 3 Remind the GN the infant is refusing to suck. Administering acrushed tablet in applesauce requires that the infant chew or suck andswallow. The GN can request that the pharmacy provide a liquid preparationof the medication. When administering liquid medication to an infant, thenurse positions the syringe toward the inside of the cheek and the back of thethroat. The infant only needs to swallow the liquid. Mixing medication withapplesauce is appropriate in some circumstances, but for this client, thevolume of 3 oz (85 grams) is excessive. In addition, applesauce may or maynot have been introduced into the diet, and it is inappropriate to introducenew foods during an illness. Focus: Supervision, Assignment.21. Ans: 2 Data suggest that Sarah may have an arm injury such as a fracture orsprain that will need intervention. Additionally, this type of injury is notconsistent with Sarah's level of development, which raises the question ofabuse or neglect. The other concerns also need to be addressed for the longtermbenefit of this family, but the most immediate concern is the acute injury678to Sarah's arm. Focus: Prioritization.22. Ans: 1, 3, 5, 6 The UAP can hold one child, accompany the infant toradiology, and assist the toddler to eat. All caregivers should observe for andreport signs of abuse. The UAP will have less formal training in this area, buthis or her input is still valuable. Any caregiver can contact Child ProtectiveServices; however, in this case, the social worker is present and is the mostappropriate person. If a social worker were not available, then the RN shouldassume this responsibility. The RN should apply the splint and assess for the6 Ps (pain, pulse, paresthesia, paralysis, pallor, and poikilothermia[temperature control]) before and after the splint application. Focus:Delegation.23. Ans: 4 Try to use therapeutic communication first. An AMA form is notappropriate in this situation because the mother's ability to make goodjudgments and to care for her children is a concern. The pediatrician shouldbe notified because the mother may respond to the pediatrician's advice if shewill not listen to anyone else. Threatening to call the police is likely toincrease the mother's agitation and fears. Focus: Prioritization; Test TakingTip: In stressful situations, be aware of behaviors that reflect emotionalturmoil. Providing the opportunity to express emotions is therapeutic andcan also diffuse a potentially volatile situation.24. Ans: 2 FEV1 measures the amount of air expired after 1 second of forcedexpiration. Hence, a decrease in FEV1 indicates obstruction. As a result ofobstruction, the child may have decreased oxygenation and carbon dioxideretention; however, FEV1 reflects obstruction and not oxygenation. FEV1 isnot a method of determining pulmonary infection or pulmonary remodeling.Focus: Prioritization.25. Ans: 1 Hemoptysis (specks of blood in Rebecca's sputum) is a sign ofpulmonary infection. Pulmonary infection erodes the pulmonary bloodvessels, resulting in hemoptysis. Although there may be bleeding with gastricirritation, the presence of dark brown or black-colored blood suggests thathydrochloric acid in the stomach is breaking down red blood cells andchanging the appearance (denaturing) of the blood. Focus: Prioritization.26. Ans: 4 Forced expiration and huffing is an effective method to clear theairways. Children with cystic fibrosis do not have increased fluidrequirements. The use of inhaled corticosteroids has not been demonstratedto improve pulmonary function in children with cystic fibrosis. Oxygentherapy is administered for impaired oxygenation. Focus: Prioritization.27. Ans: 1 Lower BMI in children with cystic fibrosis is associated with poorpulmonary function. The need for increased calorie consumption andmalabsorption characteristic of cystic fibrosis can often make it difficult forchildren to consume adequate calories for growth. This child has consistentlybeen below the 5th percentile for both weight and BMI. In this case,alternative feeding routes such as gastrostomy tube feedings are considered.679Total parenteral nutrition is not suitable for long-term management ofnutritional deficits. Focus: Prioritization.28. Ans: 2 Clubbing occurs with chronic arterial desaturation. Chronic arterialdesaturation can result in polycythemia (increased RBCs). This would resultin increased hematocrit, not a decrease. Increased WBCs are indicative ofinfection. Decreased mean corpuscular volume is associated with diseasesthat may affect formation of the RBCs such as microscopic anemia resultingfrom iron deficiency. Focus: Prioritization.29. Ans: 4 Kawasaki disease is one of the most common causes of vasculitis inchildren and may result in cardiac complications. Early indications of cardiacinvolvement include tachycardia out of proportion to fever and a galloprhythm; therefore, auscultating the heart is the priority. It has already beenestablished that this child has a fever; thus, obtaining a rectal temperature isnot a priority. Respiratory changes are not characteristic of complications ofKawasaki disease. Although shock is a complication of Kawasaki disease,hypotension is a late ominous sign of shock in children. In fact, tachycardia isan earlier sign of shock in children, which further validates the need toauscultate the heart. Focus: Prioritization.30. Ans: 2 IV immunoglobulin is the first line of treatment for children withKawasaki disease because it has been demonstrated to reduce the incidenceof coronary artery aneurysms (this is life threatening). Methylprednisoloneand infliximab are indicated for refractory Kawasaki disease. Ibuprofen maybe administered for fever, which is a symptom of Kawasaki disease, but doesnot decrease the incidence of coronary aneurysm. Additionally, it usually isnot administered intravenously. Focus: Prioritization.31. Ans: 3 Children older than 6 months of age who are receiving long-termaspirin therapy should receive influenza vaccine to prevent the risk of Reyesyndrome. Influenza vaccine is not approved for children younger than 6month of age. There is no need to postpone the vaccine. Immune globulinadministration can decrease effectiveness of live-virus vaccines; however,influenza is a conjugate vaccine and not a live-virus vaccines. Conjugatevaccines stimulate the immune response by introducing a piece of thepathogen. Focus: Prioritization.32. Ans: 4 The respiratory rate is low and indicates possible postoperativeatelectasis. It is expected that after a perforated appendix, the client may havea slightly elevated temperature and decreased bowel sounds. A urine outputof 160 mL over 4 hours is normal based on 1 to 2 mL/kg/hr. Focus:Prioritization.33. Ans: 3 Charlie has decreased bowel sounds and perforated appendix, whichplaces him at risk for ileus. Insertion of a NG tube is recommended for gastricdecompression. Focus: Prioritization.34. Ans: 1 Charlie's experiencing moderate pain for which 200 mg of ibuprofenis appropriate. The recommended dose of ibuprofen is 4 to 10 mg/kg/dose.680Charlie weighs 21 kg, so the therapeutic dose range would be 84 mg to210 mg; 200 mg is within the therapeutic range. Hydrocodone is for severepain. Additionally, an adverse effect of hydrocodone is decreasedgastrointestinal motility. Charlie is at risk for ileus, and administeringhydrocodone will increase the risk. Although acetaminophen could also beadministered for mild to moderate pain, the dose is too low. The therapeuticdose of acetaminophen is 10 to 15 mg/kg/dose. The therapeutic dose rangebased on Charlie's weight will be 210 to 315 mg per dose. Currentrecommendations by the American Academy of Pediatrics advise againstcodeine for pain. Codeine is metabolized in the liver to morphine. There isgenetic variability in the activity of the hepatic enzyme (CYP2D6) thatconverts codeine to morphine; therefore, some children may have no effectfrom codeine, and some children may be highly sensitive to codeine. Focus:Prioritization.35. Ans: 1 NG suctioning can result in metabolic alkalosis, hypokalemia, andhypochloremia. Charlie's low respiratory rate, grogginess, and confusion areindicative of metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis is further evidenced byincreased pH. Muscle weakness is a sign of hypokalemia. Focus:Prioritization.681C A S E S T U D Y 2 0682Multiple Patients With Mental HealthDisorders683QuestionsNote: In this case study, the term “psychiatric nursing assistant (PNA)” is used ratherthan the more familiar “unlicensed assistive personnel (UAP).” Different facilities andlocalities will use different titles for assistive personnel. The key point to remember inassigning tasks or making patient assignments is that UAPs who routinely work on amedical-surgical unit will have different skill sets compared with PNAs, who usuallywork on a psychiatric unit.The RN is the charge nurse caring for psychiatric patients on an acute admissionunit. The team includes an experienced male RN, a female RN who has floated from amedical-surgical unit, an experienced female licensed practical nurse/licensedvocational nurse (LPN/LVN), and two experienced PNAs. There is also a male nursingstudent on the unit today. The morning hand-off report includes the followinginformation about the patients. (Note to student: This case study includes sevenpatients and simulates some events that could occur over the course of one shift. Takenotes as though you were listening to morning report. This will give you practice inidentifying important information. Refer to your notes and use critical thinking torespond to the questions.)• Ms. G, an 82-year-old woman, has a history of dementia and depression. She hasbeen admitted because her daughter believes that “Mom is getting more depressed andconfused.” She is oriented to self and believes it is 1985. She is continuously trying to“find my coat so I can go to work.” She is ambulatory with an unsteady gait and canperform self-care with step-by-step coaching. Her daughter would like her transferredto a long-term geropsychiatric unit.• Ms. B, a 32-year-old woman, has borderline personality disorder and a history offrequent admissions to the psychiatric unit. Five days ago, she was admitted forsuicidal gesture after self-infliction of cuts to the posterior forearm. She tries tomanipulate others, and she is extremely flirtatious with males. She can independentlyperform activities of daily living (ADLs) but will dress in an excessively provocativemanner.• Mr. D, a 58-year-old man, has a long history of major depression. He appearslethargic and disinterested in the environment or in others. He respondsappropriately when asked a direct question but does not initiate any socialinteraction. He requires verbal prompting for all ADLs, which he can performhimself; however, he says, “I would rather not.”• Mr. S, a 38-year-old homeless man, has disorganized schizophrenia and was foundwandering naked on a busy street. He has been on the unit for 7 weeks with minimalimprovement, but he has not been aggressive toward anyone. He frequently giggles tohimself, and if allowed, he weaves bits of garbage into his hair. He demonstrates wordsalad (schizophasia) and looseness of associations. He requires repetitive coaching toperform all ADLs.• Mr. V, a 62-year-old man, voluntarily committed himself 2 days previously for684recurrent thoughts of suicide since the death of his wife several months ago. Hereports frequently sitting at her graveside with a gun and a bottle of whiskey. He isalert and oriented × 3 (e.g., knows who he is, where he is, and what day and year it is)and answers questions appropriately, but he is preoccupied with thoughts of death.He is on one-to-one suicide precautions.• Ms. M, a 40-year-old woman, is diagnosed with manic phase of bipolar disorder. Shewas admitted after a verbal altercation in an expensive department store when hercredit cards were declined because she was over the $10,000 limit. She is talkative,grandiose, and emotionally labile. She can accomplish ADLs but will change herclothes repeatedly throughout the day.• Mr. P, a 20-year-old man, has paranoid schizophrenia and was admitted yesterdaythrough the emergency department after causing a disturbance on a public bus. Heappears disheveled and acts suspicious. He has been refusing to eat or sleep because hebelieves that “those guys have been trying to kill me because I know who they are!”1. Which two of the seven patients would be best to assign to the nurse who hasfloated from the medical-surgical unit?1. Ms. B (borderline personality) and Ms. M (manic phase bipolar disorder)2. Mr. D (major depression) and Ms. G (older patient with dementia)3. Mr. S (disorganized schizophrenia) and Mr. V (suicidal thoughts)4. Mr. P (paranoid schizophrenia) and Mr. V (suicidal thoughts)2. Which three of the seven patients would be best to assign to the experiencedfemale LPN/LVN?1. Ms. B (borderline personality), Ms. M (manic phase bipolar disorder), andMr. S (disorganized schizophrenia)2. Mr. D (major depression), Mr. P (paranoid schizophrenia), and Mr. S(disorganized schizophrenia)3. Ms. G (older patient with dementia), Mr. V (suicidal thoughts), and Ms. M(manic phase bipolar disorder)4. Mr. P (paranoid schizophrenia), Mr. V (suicidal thoughts), and Ms. B(borderline personality)3. Which two of the seven patients would be best to assign to the experiencedmale RN?1. Ms. B (borderline personality) and Ms. G (older patient with dementia)2. Mr. S (disorganized schizophrenia) and Mr. V (suicidal thoughts)3. Mr. P (paranoid schizophrenia) and Mr. V (suicidal thoughts)4. Ms. M (manic phase bipolar disorder) and Mr. D (major depression)4. A medical-surgical UAP is being temporarily floated to the unit for 2 hours toassist with morning hygiene. Which patient would be best to assign to theUAP for hygienic care.1. Ms. B (borderline personality)6852. Mr. P (paranoid schizophrenia)3. Mr. S (disorganized schizophrenia)4. Mr. D (major depression)5. The nursing student tells the charge nurse that his clinical assignment for theday is to obtain a patient history and perform a mental status examinationthat will take about 1 or 2 hours to complete. Which patient would be best tosuggest to the student?1. Ms. M (manic phase bipolar disorder)2. Mr. V (suicidal thoughts)3. Ms. G (older patient with dementia)4. Mr. D (major depression)6. The charge nurse is receiving a report from a relatively new night shift nurse.She says that Ms. G (older patient with dementia) was confused during theevening and kept getting out of bed. Because of this, an as needed (PRN)sedative was administered, and a temporary chest restraint was placed toprevent falls. What is the charge nurse's priority action?1. Report the night nurse to the supervisor for violating the patient's rights.2. Assess the patient and obtain additional information about the incident.3. Advise the night nurse to seek out the unit manager and discuss theincident.4. Call the health care provider (HCP) to obtain prescriptions for medicationand restraints.7. The nursing student is assisting Ms. G (older patient with dementia). Thesupervising nurse would intervene if the student performed which action?1. Made a seasonally appropriate decoration to hang on the patient's wall2. Cleaned and rearranged the patient's room and put personal items in thecloset3. Identified the patient by looking at her armband and asking the patient tostate her name4. Displayed current pictures of the patient's family on the bedside table8. Fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), is prescribed forMs. G (older patient with dementia) to treat depression. What instructionrelated to the fluoxetine is the charge nurse most likely to give to the PNA?1. “Watch for and report mild nausea.”2. “Assist patient to stand for orthostatic hypotension.”3. “Offer fluids and oral hygiene for dry mouth.”4. “Perform hygiene in the afternoon because of morning sedation.”9. Ms. G's (older patient with dementia) daughter says, “I’m tired of waiting formy mother to be transferred to a geropsychiatric unit. I’m taking her hometoday!” What is the priority action?6861. Obtain an “against medical advice” (AMA) form, explain the consequencesto the daughter, and have her sign the form.2. Call the HCP about the situation and encourage the daughter to call theHCP directly.3. Encourage the daughter to wait and reassure her that the transfer to thegeropsychiatric unit will occur soon.4. Verify the unit's AMA policies and check on the status of the patient'stransfer and explain findings to the daughter.10. A psychiatric social worker is conducting a community meeting. The chargenurse is the co-leader. All patients are attending because there has been theftof personal items. Ms. M (manic phase bipolar disorder) continuouslyinterrupts and loudly announces, “Ms. B (borderline personality) stole mylipstick. Look at her lips!” What is the nurse's best response to this situation?1. Walk over to Ms. M and quietly escort her out of the meeting.2. Allow the psychiatric social worker to control the meeting and the patients’behaviors.3. Instruct Ms. B to give an honest response to Ms. M's accusations.4. Tell Ms. M that the thefts are being investigated and to please not interrupt.11. A HCP verbally directs the charge nurse to seclude Ms. M (manic phasebipolar disorder) for several hours because “she was belligerent andargumentative” during an interview. The nurse requests this be written, butthe HCP declines because “it is just temporary, and I already explained theconsequences of the behavior to the patient.” What is the best approach indealing with this situation?1. Assess the patient for signs of aggressive or dangerous behavior anddiscuss findings and concerns with the HCP.2. Refuse to follow the verbal order because there is a violation of the patient'srights if there are no written orders.3. Recognize that setting limits and enforcing consequences are part of thetreatment plan, so seclude and monitor accordingly.4. Document the situation; seclude the patient; and continue to providepatient care, safety, and emotional support.12. Which laboratory result causes the most concern for Ms. M (manic phasebipolar disorder), who is receiving lithium?1. Serum chloride level of 100 mEq/L (100 mmol/L)2. Serum sodium level of 125 mEq/L (125 mmol/L)3. Serum potassium level of 5 mEq/L (5 mmol/L)4. Serum glucose level of 140 mg/dL (7.8 mmol/L)13. What is an early sign that alerts the nurse that Ms. M (manic phase bipolardisorder) may be having lithium toxicity?1. Ms. M demonstrates fine hand tremors as she reaches for a spoon.6872. Ms. M appears heavily sedated at a time of day when she is usually alert.3. Ms. M has had very scant amounts of urine output for the past 16 hours.4. Ms. M demonstrates gait abnormalities and loss of muscle control.14. During the shift, Ms. M's (manic phase bipolar disorder) husband andteenage daughter come in for a visit. Ms. M is extremely happy to see them,but she becomes very emotional and starts to cry. The daughter says, “Mom,please, if you would just stay on your medication, you wouldn’t have to keepcoming back here.” What should the nurse do first to promote medicationadherence?1. Review pharmacologic action and reassure that addiction is not an issue.2. Tell the family to assume responsibility for medication adherence.3. Give Ms. M and family written instructions about dosage and frequency.4. Ask Ms. M to outline the steps she uses when she takes the medication.15. Ms. B (borderline personality disorder) says that the male nursing studentwas flirting and trying to kiss her and touch her breasts. The student deniesthe accusation but says, “She asked me if I thought she was attractive, and Isaid yes.” What is the best way to handle this situation?1. Advise the student that this type of behavior is typical for Ms. B butsuggest that he contact the instructor and fill out an incident report.2. Tell the student that this is a learning experience, but he should rememberto carefully consider the impact of casual comments when working withpsychiatric patients.3. Go with the student to confront Ms. B so that the details of the incident canbe clarified and then write an incident report.4. Tell the student that the incident will have to be reported to the board ofnursing but that nothing is likely to come of it.16. Ms. B (borderline personality disorder) requests that the nurse, “talk to herin private about a serious personal issue.” The nurse agrees to spend 10minutes with her, and during that time, she says that her stepfather has rapedher several times in the past and that she plans to “buy a gun and shoot himthe next time I see him coming at me!” What is the best approach inresponding to this information?1. Recognize that this is the patient's attempt at manipulation to gainsympathy and gently but firmly set limits.2. Spend additional time with the patient and gather more information aboutthe incident and her feelings.3. Acknowledge feelings of anger and powerlessness and tell her that theconversation must be reported to the psychiatric team.4. Assess the patient for any physical evidence, offer to contact a rape crisiscounselor, and provide support group information.17. Mr. D has major depression, and in addition to receiving pharmacologic and688milieu therapy, he is to start electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). Which tasksrelated to the ECT can be delegated to the PNA? Select all that apply.1. Before the procedure: Reinforce that the patient has nothing by mouth for 6to 8 hours.2. Before the procedure: Remove jewelry and devices such as dentures andhearing aids.3. During the procedure: Monitor the heart rate.4. After the procedure: Measure and report vital sign values.5. After the procedure: Reorient the patient and assess for short-term memoryloss.6. After the procedure: Assist the patient to eat a meal.18. Mr. D's (major depression) wife comes to visit, and as she is leaving, thenurse notices that she is crying. The nurse gently takes her aside to a privatearea, and the wife says, “He's not getting any better. He's been here for 3weeks, and he's so apathetic. He actually seems a little worse.” What is thenurse's best response?1. “You seem very upset; that's understandable. Come back in a few days. I’msure he’ll be better.”2. “Medication therapy may take 4 to 8 weeks to be effective, and theelectroconvulsive therapy was just started this week.”3. “Your husband really is getting the best treatment possible, and you justhave to be patient and optimistic.”4. “If you would like to talk to the HCP, I would be glad to contact him foryou. He can explain what's happening.”19. The nurse is talking to Mr. S, who has disorganized schizophrenia withobvious thought disorder. The patient says, “I am God Jesus God. I will praypray, say pray, say pray say day a pray for you.” What is the mosttherapeutic response?1. “Thank you, Jesus, I need all the prayers I can get.”2. “Praying is a good thing to do, but you are not Jesus.”3. “Let's talk about something else right now.”4. “Your offer to pray for me is kind and generous.”20. The nursing student asks, “How do I start therapeutic communication with apatient like Mr. S who has schizophrenia? With his thought disorder, wordsalad (schizophasia), inappropriate giggling, and the loose associations, Ican’t understand him.” Which option would the nurse recommend as thebest option for the student to use with this patient?1. “Come and join us in a card game. We would enjoy your company.”2. “My name is ________. I am a nursing student. What is your name?”3. “I have 15 minutes. Would you like to sit down and talk for a while?”4. “I heard you were walking down the street. What do you remember about689that?”21. Clozapine is prescribed for Mr. S (disorganized schizophrenia). Whichlaboratory tests are the most important to monitor in relation to thismedication?1. White blood cell and absolute neutrophil counts2. Fasting blood glucose and hemoglobin A1c test3. Cholesterol and triglyceride levels4. Cardiac enzymes and troponin1 and troponin T22. The nursing student tells the charge nurse that he needs information aboutthe side effects of antipsychotic medications, such as clozapine, that isprescribed for Mr. S (disorganized schizophrenia). What is the charge nurse'sbest action?1. Recommend that the student purchase a drug reference book.2. Teach the student how to access electronic drug information.3. Ask the student how he usually researches drug information.4. Give the student the pharmacist's contact information.23. The medication nurse tells the charge nurse that Mr. S (disorganizedschizophrenia) is attempting to “cheek” his medication, and medicating himis progressively more time consuming. “He wants water, then juice, thenwater, then a different juice, then new paper cups; then he walks away to thebathroom, and it starts all over again.” What suggestion would charge nursetell the medication nurse to try first?1. Continue to spend extra time giving medications and observing himbecause he is in the acute phase of illness.2. Be kind and firm and tell Mr. S that he must take the medication and thatall of the paper cups and fluids are safe.3. Consult the pharmacist and HCP to see if a sublingual tablet, such asasenapine, would be appropriate for Mr. S.4. Talk to Mr. S and explain that taking medication is essential and ask him ifhe would prefer an injection.24. Mr. V is a quiet and cooperative patient; however, he is on suicideprecautions with one-to-one observation because “my [dead] wife told me ina dream how I could be with her.” Which tasks, under the appropriatesupervision, can be delegated to the PNA? Select all that apply.1. Assist Mr. V with hygiene while he shaves his face and takes a shower.2. Evaluate mood, statements, and behavior every 15 to 30 minutes.3. Explain the need for one-to-one observation.4. Use good communication techniques, such as active listening.5. Go through the patient's belongings and remove potentially harmfulobjects.6906. Maintain an arm's length distance from Mr. V at all times.25. Mr. V (suicidal thoughts) is prescribed fluoxetine. What is the mostimportant nursing intervention related to this medication?1. Monitor for initial weight loss followed by long-term weight gain.2. Inform patient about high probability for sexual dysfunction.3. Assess for self-harm behavior because medication increases risk.4. Observe for headaches, nausea, or sensory disturbances.26. Mr. V (suicidal thoughts), who admitted 2 days ago, develops agitation,confusion, disorientation, anxiety, and poor concentration. Which adversemedication effects related to the prescribed fluoxetine does the nurse suspect?1. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS)2. Withdrawal syndrome3. Extrapyramidal side effects4. Serotonin syndrome27. Mr. P (paranoid schizophrenia) is screaming at the medication nurse, “Youare trying to poison me!” The medication nurse is gently trying to calm himdown, but the patient is yelling, “It's the wrong pill! It's wrong!” What is thecharge nurse's priority action?1. Support the medication nurse's efforts to administer the medication.2. Advise the medication nurse to double check the HCP's prescription.3. Advise that the medication be held and then notify the HCP.4. Try to get Mr. P to take the medication by handing it to him.28. Mr. P (paranoid schizophrenia) is pacing in the day room. His fists areclenched, he appears tense and suspicious, and he periodically yells at anempty chair. What is the priority action?1. Quickly step between Mr. P and any other patients who are nearby.2. Gather several staff members for a show of force and unity.3. Administer a PRN anxiolytic to Mr. P.4. Use a calm, clear tone of voice to give simple, concrete instructions.29. The medication nurse asks the charge nurse if the HCP should increase orchange Mr. P's (paranoid schizophrenia) antipsychotic medication “becausehe is pacing and agitated.” What is the best rationale for conducting furtherassessment before calling the HCP for a prescription change?1. The charge nurse would want to collect complete data for the SBAR(situation, background, assessment, recommendation) format before callingthe HCP for a prescription change.2. Akathisia (pacing and squirming) is a side effect of antipsychoticmedication; a dosage increase could worsen side effects.3. Mr. P was just recently started on medication, so there has been insufficienttime to evaluate efficacy of current dosage.6914. Other nonpharmacologic therapies should be attempted before medicationis changed or the dosage is increased.30. Mr. P (paranoid schizophrenia) is at risk to harm himself or others becauseof his fear and paranoid behavior. Which task can be delegated to the PNA?1. Observing his interactions and behavior toward the other patients2. Following him around the day room to prevent occurrences of aggressiontoward other patients3. Serving his food tray and pointing out that all items are wrapped andsealed in original packaging4. Checking all his personal belongings for items that are potentiallydangerous31. Mr. P (paranoid schizophrenia) tells the charge nurse, “No informationshould be released to anybody in my family. Not while I am in the hospital orafter I am released!” What should the nurse do first?1. Tell Mr. P that his request will be respected but inform him that the healthcare team will listen if family expresses opinions or concerns.2. Listen to Mr. P and document his request but let the HCP decide if Mr. P ismentally able to withhold consent for information sharing.3. Try to get Mr. P to change his mind by explaining how vital if is to have thefamily's help and support both in and out of the hospital.4. Do not argue with Mr. P but gently try to redirect him toward anotheractivity because he won’t remember his request.32. The charge nurse is in the day room, and the following events are evolvingat the same time. Which patient situations can be delegated to the PNA?Select all that apply.1. Ms. B (borderline personality disorder) locks herself in the bathroom andyells, “I’ll drown myself in the toilet!”2. Mr. D (depression) has fecal incontinence in the day room and makes noeffort to clean up.3. Ms. M (mania) is outside in the courtyard removing her clothes.4. Mr. S (disorganized schizophrenia) needs his routine medication and mustbe observed for “pouching.”5. Mr. V (suicidal thoughts) is sitting at a table and writing letters to hisfamily and friends.6. Ms. G (dementia) is looking for her coat and trying to get out the frontdoor.33. The charge nurse is giving an SBAR (situation, background, assessment,recommendation) report to the HCP about Ms. B (borderline personalitydisorder), who locked herself in the bathroom and threatened to drownherself in the toilet. Place the following information about the incident in thecorrect order using the SBAR format.6921. “Ms. B was admitted 4 days ago for self-inflicted cuts to the arms and has adiagnosis of borderline personality disorder. She voluntarily opened thedoor; her clothes, face, and hair were completely dry. She did not verbalizesuicidal intent, but this morning, she had a verbal disagreement withanother patient over a lipstick and claimed that a nursing student madesexually inappropriate advances toward her.”2. “Dr. S, this is Nurse J from the acute psychiatric unit. I am calling about Ms.B. At 3:15 pm, she locked herself in the bathroom and threatened to drownherself in the toilet.”3. “She is currently alert, conversant, and uninjured. Her blood pressure is120/80 mm Hg, pulse rate is 82 beats/min, and respiratory rate is 16breaths/min. She is apologetic about causing a commotion, but she refusesto sign a no-suicide contract for safety, and she says that she’ll probably trysomething else.”4. “She is in her room, and we placed her on one-to-one observation. I wouldlike to continue the observation. And is there anything else you would likeus to address at this time?”_____, _____, _____, _____34. It is 6:30 pm, and the charge nurse receives a call from a newly hired nursewho is scheduled to work at 7:00 pm. She tells the charge nurse that she is sickand will not be able to come in. What should the charge nurse do first?1. Tell her that 30 minutes is insufficient for a call in; ask if she understandsthe call-in policy.2. Instruct her that she must call around and find someone to work for her orcome in herself.3. Document in her file that she failed to give adequate notice for calling insick.4. Tell oncoming charge nurse that there was a call in, so staffing will be shortfor the evening.35. Which end-of-shift tasks should be delegated to the PNAs? Select all thatapply.1. Assisting Ms. G (dementia) to change her soiled blouse before eveningvisitors arrive2. Accompanying Ms. B (borderline) to the bathroom to prevent a repeat oflocking the door3. Encouraging Mr. D (depression) to finish a glass of water for the allotmentof the shift4. Accompanying Mr. S (disorganized schizophrenia) to the gift shop before itcloses5. Maintaining one-to-one observation with Mr. V (suicidal) until theoncoming shift takes over6. Assisting Mr. P (paranoid schizophrenia) to straighten his room and pick693up his belongings36. As the charge nurse, which tasks should be completed at the end-of-shiftbefore leaving for the day? Select all that apply.1. Initiate a patient assignment sheet for the oncoming shift.2. Take brief information (from admitting office) on a new patient who will beadmitted from the emergency department.3. Call social services to search for the family of Mr. S (homeless, foundwandering).4. Check with the PNA who is performing one-to-one observation with Mr. V(suicidal thoughts).5. Thank the ancillary staff for their help.6. Talk to each RN and LPN/LVN about their concerns related to assignedpatients.694Answer Key1. Ans: 2 Mr. D has major depression, and Ms. G has dementia and depression.These two patients require physical care and verbal coaching. The medicalsurgicalnurse would be most familiar with the care and conditions of thesetwo patients. Focus: Assignment.2. Ans: 1 Ms. B, with a borderline personality disorder, and Ms. M, with manicbehavior, need continuous and firm limit setting from an experienced andpreferably female nurse. They may be excessively argumentative ormanipulative. The LPN/LVN could also care for Mr. S who shows bizarrebehavior, but he has a chronic condition and does not display harmfulactions. Focus: Assignment.3. Ans: 3 Mr. P, who has paranoid schizophrenia, and Mr. V, who is activelysuicidal, have the most acute conditions and therefore should be assigned toan experienced RN. Focus: Assignment.4. Ans: 4 Mr. D (depression) needs assistance and encouragement to meet hishygienic needs, and he can understand and follow instructions. He would bethe best patient to assign to the medical-surgical UAP. Ms. B (borderlinepersonality disorder) and Ms. M (manic phase bipolar disorder) canaccomplish their own hygienic care, but specific boundaries may need to beset about dressing appropriately. Mr. P (paranoid schizophrenia) could beeasily provoked because of his paranoia. Mr. S (disorganized schizophrenia)has severe communication barriers that the UAP may not understand. Mr. V(suicidal thoughts) is on suicide precautions. Ms. G (dementia) could also beassigned to the UAP; however, patients with dementia do better if they havethe same caregiver whenever possible. Focus: Assignment.5. Ans: 1 Students generally prefer to complete this type of assignment withpatients who are willing and able to carry on a reasonably coherentconversation. Ms. M (manic behavior) is probably the best choice because sheis likely to seek out the student (or any other person who enters the unit) andinitiate a conversation. Mr. V (suicidal thoughts) would benefit from theattention that a student could give him, but the assigned PNA and thestudent must be aware that the patient is on continuous one-to-oneobservation and that the presence of the student does not replace theobservations made by the staff. Mr. D (depression) could answer questionsappropriately, but his energy will not sustain a prolonged interview. Ms. B(borderline personality disorder) is likely to seek out the student; however,special attention from a young man is not likely to be part of her treatmentplan. Mr. P (paranoid schizophrenia) is likely to refuse an interview or willhave a low tolerance for interaction. Mr. S (disorganized schizophrenia)provides an interesting opportunity for observing symptoms, but he is not agood historian, and chart data may be limited. Ms. G (dementia) would be aninteresting choice for a mental status examination; however, she is not a good695historian, and prolonged questioning is likely to increase her restlessness andagitation. Focus: Supervision.6. Ans: 2 The first action would be to assess the patient for current mental statusand for safety and comfort related to use of restraints. The chest restraint is aparticularly dangerous choice for this confused patient because of the risk forstrangulation. Additional information is necessary to validate the need formedications and restraints and to determine if other interventions were triedbefore resorting to chemical or physical restraints. Based on assessment of thepatient and situation, the other three options may be appropriate. Focus:Prioritization, Supervision; Test Taking Tip: Use the principles of nursingprocess and the concept of safety to determine priorities. Assessment is thefirst step of the nursing process. The safety of the patient precedes anyinvestigation of this inappropriate use of restraints.7. Ans: 2 Although minimizing clutter is important, rearranging furniture andbelongings can increase confusion. Options 1, 3, and 4 are appropriateinterventions to use with a patient who has dementia. Focus: Supervision;Test Taking Tip: There is a focus on care for older patients, so it is likely thatthe NCLEX® Examination will include these types of questions. Recall thatolder patients need more time and patience to accomplish tasks; patients withdementia benefit from adherence to routines and familiar surroundings,objects, and caregivers.8. Ans: 1 The most common side effects of SSRIs include sexual dysfunction,mild nausea, headache, nervousness, insomnia, and anxiety. Sedation,orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, and cardiotoxicity are notexpected side effects of SSRIs; these side effects are more associated withtricyclic antidepressants or monoamine oxidase inhibitors. Focus: Delegation.9. Ans: 4 AMA policies may vary, and transfer to specialty facilities can becomplex and time consuming. Explain to the patient and family that leavingAMA may actually delay geropsychiatric placement because the patient'splace on waiting lists may be lost or a relationship may have to be establishedwith another referring provider. The HCP writes the order for transfer but isusually not involved in making the administrative arrangements. Falsereassurance to placate the daughter is not the best approach. After the AMApolicy has been verified, the daughter can be assisted in filling out theappropriate AMA forms if she still wants to take her mother home. Focus:Prioritization.10. Ans: 4 Support the therapeutic milieu by demonstrating to all the patientsthat the psychiatric unit has social norms. Instructing Ms. M (manic phasebipolar disorder) to stop interrupting is a concrete direction that delineatesexpected group behavior. Escorting her out may be the easiest solution, butparameters for behavior (e.g., “Raise your hand if you want to speak”) andconsequences (e.g., “if you interrupt one more time, you will have to leave”)should be clarified first. If the social worker is not able to control Ms. M, theco-leader could assist with individual behavioral management while the696leader keeps the group on task. Ideally, these roles are discussed beforehand.Encouragement of confrontation could be used in a small group therapysession to teach patients to directly express and respond to one another;however, in this community meeting, having Ms. B (borderline personalitydisorder) defend herself is likely to lead to a loud and unproductive publicdisplay. Focus: Prioritization.11. Ans: 1 Assess the patient for behaviors that would warrant seclusion (e.g.,represent a danger to self or to others) and then discuss concerns with theHCP. If seclusion is punitive, there is a potential for violation of rightsregardless of whether the order is verbal or written. Although patients doneed limit setting and clear boundaries, the health care team must intervenein the “least restrictive” manner. After additional assessment, documentation,seclusion, and continued care are options. However, going up the chain ofcommand to prevent future similar incidents is also an option Focus:Prioritization.12. Ans: 2 When the sodium level is low, (normal range 136–145 mEq/L or 136–145 mmol/L) the body retains lithium, so there is an increased risk for lithiumtoxicity. The chloride (normal range 98–106 mEq/L or 98–106 mmol/L) andpotassium (normal range 3.5–5.0 mEq/L or 3.5–5.0 mmol/L) levels are withinnormal limits. The glucose level (normal fasting range 70–110 mg/dL or< 6.1 mmol/L) would be considered elevated if the patient has not eatenwithin the past several hours. Focus: Prioritization.13. Ans: 1 Mild responses, which can develop when lithium levels are stillwithin the therapeutic range, include fine hand tremors, nausea, vomiting,diarrhea, polyuria, lethargy, slurred speech, and muscle weakness. Excessivesedation, decreased urinary output, gait abnormalities, and loss of musclecontrol are later signs that are associated with higher plasma levels oflithium. Focus: Prioritization.14. Ans: 4 First, assess for successful attempts with medication adherence. Thisis a way to give positive feedback and to identify factors that contributed tosuccess; then barriers to adherence would be reviewed to develop a plan.After assessment, the other options could be used, although the family isgenerally encouraged to assist rather than assume responsibility formedication adherence. Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 1 Have the student contact the instructor. An incident report should befiled so that a detailed record is available for review. The instructor candebrief the student, who is likely to be upset, and there may be unintentionalelements of his behavior that triggered Ms. B's (borderline personalitydisorder) response. Ms. B should have an opportunity to talk about theincident also, but the charge nurse must avoid taking sides. The charge nurseshould write an incident report that is separate and independent from thestudent's account. The incident is unlikely to be reported directly to the boardof nursing, but it could go to peer review if the student's behavior appears tobe questionable. Focus: Supervision.69716. Ans: 3 Acknowledging feelings is therapeutic; at the same time, this does notnecessarily confirm or deny the veracity of Ms. B's (borderline personalitydisorder) statements. Explain that any verbalizations of potential harm mustbe shared with the HCP and psychiatric team. Rather than spend additionaltime with Ms. B, gently inform her that the appropriate team members mustbe contacted for follow-up. (The problem may be real, but Ms. B also has along history of manipulating for attention.) Physical assessment will notprovide any evidence of rape, but a rape crisis counselor could be contactedfor long-term follow-up. Focus: Prioritization.17. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 6 Under appropriate supervision, a PNA can assist patients toprepare for the procedure by reinforcing foods and fluid restrictions andremoving and storing personal items. PNAs can also take vital signs andassist with meals. The RN, anesthetist, or physician should monitor the heartrate and rhythm on the cardiac monitor. The RN should assess for short-termmemory loss, which is expected, and concurrently reorient the patient. Focus:Delegation.18. Ans: 2 Antidepressant medication does not give immediate relief. Generally,the HCP will prescribe an antidepressant and evaluate the efficacy for 4 to 8weeks before any changes are made. In Option 1, the nurse reflects feelings,but the reassurance is vague. Option 3 is an empty platitude and not veryuseful to the wife. The nurse would contact the HCP if the wife continued tohave questions or needed additional information about the treatment plan.Focus: Prioritization.19. Ans: 4 First, acknowledge the underlying “healthy” intent and expressappreciation for the gesture. The patient is expressing a delusion of grandeurand religiosity with clang associations. Addressing the patient as Jesussupports the delusion, whereas contradicting the delusion is thought to havea reinforcing effect. Redirecting to concrete, here-and-now topics isappropriate after acknowledging the underlying feelings. Redirection is alsoappropriate when the patient is repetitive with delusional content. Focus:Prioritization.20. Ans: 2 With thought disorder patients, use short, simple questions that areeasy to understand and respond to. If this particular patient can state hisname in response to the question, it would be a therapeutic accomplishmentbecause of his severe thought disorder. The other options show interest in thepatient, but it is unlikely that this patient could sustain the concentrationrequired to play cards, to sit for 15 minutes, or to recall the events precedinghospitalization. Focus: Prioritization.21. Ans: 1 One of the most dangerous adverse effects of clozapine is lifethreateningagranulocytosis; therefore, white blood cell and absoluteneutrophil counts must be within normal limits before starting themedication, and weekly monitoring is required until the HCP opts todecrease the frequency of monitoring. Weight gain also increases the risk fordiabetes and dyslipidemia, so glucose and lipid levels would also be698monitored. Adverse cardiac effects are rare, but possible, so chest pain,palpitations, and dyspnea should be immediately reported. Focus:Prioritization.22. Ans: 3 The charge nurse would first assess how the student usually acquiresnew information. Based on the student's preferred learning style, the nursemay elect to use the other options. Some students use a personal drugreference book that can be flagged or highlighted. Other students find thatelectronic sources are faster. Some students are auditory learners, and theyretain more information by listening and talking. Focus: Prioritization,Supervision.23. Ans: 3 If the pharmacist and HCP agree that asenapine would be acceptable,sublingual tablets, such as asenapine are ideal for patients who “cheek orpouch” because placing the tablet in the buccal space allows the medicationto be absorbed as intended. The medication nurse has been spending extratime, and this strategy is not working. Recall that Mr. S has severe thoughtdisorders associated with schizophrenia; he may or may not benefit from theunderlying intent of limit setting and verbal reassurance. Offering sealedcontainers of fluid would be a better option. Mr. S could view an injection asmore threatening, and the suggestion could cause defensive or aggressivebehavior. Focus: Prioritization.24. Ans: 1, 4, 6 The PNA can assist with hygiene. All team members should usegood communication techniques. The RN can delegate one-to-oneobservation to the PNA but must supervise and give specific instructions.The RN retains responsibility for frequent assessment. The RN is responsiblefor teaching and explaining safety measures. Searching the patient'sbelongings should not be delegated; the task requires clinical judgment aboutpotential for self-harm. Focus: Delegation.25. Ans: 3 Antidepressants increase the risk of suicide, although the greatest riskis seen in children, adolescents, and young adults; however, this is also thepriority intervention for Mr. V because he is already manifesting suicidalthoughts. Fluoxetine may also cause sexual dysfunction and initial weightloss with weight gain after long-term treatment. Headaches, nausea, sensorydisturbances, tremor, anxiety, and dysphoria may occur if the drug isabruptly discontinued. Focus: Prioritization.26. Ans: 4 Signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome include agitation,confusion, disorientation, anxiety, poor concentration, and hallucinations.These usually begin 2 to 72 hours, after a SSRI is started. Symptoms shouldresolve when the medication is discontinued. Symptoms of NMS includefever, altered mental status, muscle rigidity, dysrhythmias, and autonomicinstability. NMS is more likely to occur with the first-generationantipsychotics, such as haloperidol or loxapine. Withdrawal syndrome occurswhen an SSRI is abruptly discontinued. Symptoms include dizziness,headache, tremor, nausea, sensory disturbance, anxiety, and dysphoria. SSRIscan cause extrapyramidal side effects, but the incidence is low, and699restlessness and agitation are the most common manifestations. Focus:Prioritization.27. Ans: 2 Although Mr. P is paranoid, even psychiatric patients may be able torecognize their own medications. As with any patient, double check theHCP's original prescription to see if there has been an error. Compare theprescription with the medication reconciliation list (if it is available) to see ifthe current prescription matches what the patient has taken in the past. Theother options could be used after the medication prescription is clarified.Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Always, pay attention to patients’comments about their own medications. Whenever there is any doubt aboutthe medications, check the original prescription.28. Ans: 4 The patient is in the pre-assaultive stage. Use a calm tone of voice andexplain what he is expected to do. This will help him to gain control andconveys respect in his ability to participate in his own behavior control.Options 2 and 3 may be necessary after the verbal intervention. If at allpossible, avoid sudden or quick actions, which could be interpreted asphysical aggression. Focus: Prioritization.29. Ans: 2 If the observed behavior is a side effect of the medication, a dosageincrease would worsen the symptoms. For protection of the patient, the nursewould not initiate a potentially harmful change. The other options also play apart in the charge nurse's decision to perform additional assessment beforecalling the HCP to request any changes in prescription medications. Focus:Prioritization.30. Ans: 3 Give the PNA specific instructions to point out that the food iswrapped and sealed. This should help to decrease anxieties related to fear ofpoisoned or tainted food. Following him around the day room is not a goodstrategy because it is likely to increase his suspicions and make him moreanxious. Observing his interactions and checking his belongings fordangerous items should be performed by the RN. Focus: Delegation.31. Ans: 1 Mr. P (paranoid schizophrenia) has the same rights as any competentadult patient to decide how his medical information is handled. If there is adanger to himself or others, this could change; otherwise, the health careteam should respect his wishes. It is also a good idea to inform Mr. P that thehealth care team will listen to the family because he may see his familytalking to the staff. If the nurse is unsure about Mr. P's mental competency,then it is appropriate to consult the HCP, but HCP should then inform Mr. Pabout the need to share information with the family. The nurse may try laterto get Mr. P to give consent for sharing information but not while he is in anagitated or argumentative state. Mr. P does not have dementia, so redirectinghim and anticipating that he will not remember the request is not the bestaction. Focus: Prioritization.32. Ans: 2, 3, 6 The PNA can assist Mr. D (depression) with hygienic care andredirect Ms. G (dementia) away from the door. The PNA should be reminded700that Ms. G is at risk for falls. The PNA could also help Ms. M withappropriate clothing, but the follow-up therapeutic intervention of settingboundaries and linking immediate behavior to consequences should be doneby an RN or LPN/LVN. The RN should assess Ms. B (borderline personalitydisorder) for suicide risk. Suicide precautions with one-to-one observationmust be initiated. The HCP must be notified, and the incident must becarefully documented. The RN should assess Mr. V for suicidal thoughts.Writing letters could be a positive and therapeutic action; however, lettersmay also contain evidence of final goodbyes. Administering oral medicationsis within the scope of practice of the LPN/LVN. Psychiatric patients areroutinely observed for “pouching” pills in the buccal area. Focus: Delegation.33. Ans: 2, 1, 3, 4 Using the SBAR format, the nurse first identifies himself orherself, gives the patient's name, and describes the current situation. Next,the nurse gives relevant background information, such as the patient'sdiagnosis, medications, and laboratory data. The assessment includes bothpatient assessment data that are of concern and the nurse's analysis of thesituation. Finally, the nurse makes a recommendation indicating what actionhe or she thinks is needed. Focus: Prioritization.34. Ans: 1 First give a verbal warning; she must acknowledge that sheunderstands the call-in parameters. Explain that this type of behaviorjeopardizes her probation status and that next time, the incident will go intowriting. Forcing an employee to come in during illness is not good for theother employees or the patients. The oncoming nurse must be informed aboutthe short staffing, but the acting charge nurse would try to find areplacement. Working short staffed is not safe or pleasant for anyone. Focus:Supervision, Assignment.35. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 5 Tasks 1, 2, 3, and 5 should be delegated to the PNAs. Shiftchange is a hectic time; the charge nurse is trying to leave the unit in goodorder for the oncoming shift. Mr. S (disorganized schizophrenia) should notgo to the gift shop today; he is still too disorganized. For today, it is better notto touch Mr. P's (paranoid schizophrenia) belongings, especially if the clutteris not a safety issue; just leave them alone until his anxiety and suspicions arebetter controlled. Focus: Prioritization.36. Ans: 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 Tasks 1, 4, and 6 are necessary tasks to provide a thoroughshift-change report. Having some knowledge about the new patient (task 2) isuseful in making assignments for the next shift. Task 5 should be doneroutinely for team building and morale. Task 3 is likely to require a lengthydiscussion and should be left for the next business day, when social servicespersonnel will be available to assist the nursing staff and the patient withthese issues. Focus: Prioritization.701C A S E S T U D Y 2 1702Childbearing703QuestionsMs. N is a 20-year-old gravida 1, para 0 (G1P0) woman who begins her prenatal caretoday at 24 weeks’ gestation. She says that she didn’t know she was pregnant untilnow. Her prepregnancy body mass index was 23. She has gained 30 lb (13.6 kg) so far.She admits that she eats poorly and smokes a half-pack of cigarettes daily but claims touse no other substances. She lives with her boyfriend and has no immediate family inthe area. She reports no significant medical, surgical, or family history. The RN istaking her history and drawing samples for laboratory work today on this first prenatalvisit.1. What would be the priority topics in client teaching today? Select all thatapply.1. Smoking cessation methods2. Recommendation of a flu shot (if flu season)3. Danger signs during pregnancy4. Basics of nutrition5. Pain relief options in labor and birthMs. N returns for her second prenatal appointment 1 week later. Her laboratory resultsinclude the following abnormal findings: 1-hour glucose tolerance test, 190 mg/dL(10.5 mmol/L); Pap smear results, low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion withhigh-risk human papillomavirus (HPV) present; and chlamydia test, positive for theorganism. The health care provider (HCP) has written orders for a 3-hour glucosetolerance test and a colposcopy, and has provided a prescription for azithromycin 1 g bymouth. Ms. N has increased her smoking to 1 pack/day because of stress.2. What would be accurate and priority information to give Ms. N about thepositive chlamydia test result?1. By taking the medication now and having her partner treated, she can helpavoid complications in the pregnancy.2. The medication for chlamydia infection is not safe in pregnancy, and sheshould use condoms until she can be treated postpartum.3. Chlamydia infection cannot really be cured and may recur despitetreatment.4. Chlamydia infection does no harm to the baby during the pregnancy or atdelivery, but treatment is recommended to avoid pelvic inflammatorydisease in the woman.7043. What else would be priority education given the scenario described earlier?1. Instruct Ms. N not to fast for the 3-hour glucose tolerance test because it isnot safe to do so in pregnancy.2. Refer Ms. N to a social worker because her increased stress can be a riskfactor for preterm birth.3. Instruct Ms. N that genital HPV infection can be effectively treated withcolposcopy.4. Instruct Ms. N that, if HPV is present at the time of labor, a cesarean sectionwill be needed.Later that evening Ms. N calls the clinic and reports vaginal bleeding and cramping.The nurse advises her to go to the emergency department (ED) and tells the client thather provider and the RN in the ED will be notified.4. Using the SBAR (situation, background, assessment, recommendation)format, in which order will the nurse communicate information in the reportto the ED RN?1. “The client is coming to the ED for evaluation for possible preterm laborand bleeding.”2. “She has multiple high-risk pregnancy factors, including an elevated 1-hour glucose level, positive chlamydia test, and an abnormal Pap testresult. She's had only two prenatal visits and no ultrasound yet. The clientsmokes cigarettes; reports a lot of stress; and is single, unemployed, andwith little support.”3. “The client is a 20-year-old G1P0 at 24 weeks’ gestation who reports vaginalbleeding and cramping starting this evening.”4. “Please be sure she also gets a social work consult and ensure that she hastaken the prescribed azithromycin 1 gram to treat the chlamydia infection.”_____, _____, _____, _____Ms. N arrives in the obstetrics triage area crying and accompanied by an agitated manwho is speaking angrily to the client.5. Indicate the order in which the RN should take the following actions at thistime.1. Apply a fetal monitor and measure vital signs.2. Obtain a thorough history from the client.3. Notify the HCP.4. Instruct the man to wait in the waiting area and notify security.7055. Call a social worker for a consult._____, _____, _____, _____, _____Ms. N relates that when she told her partner about the positive chlamydia test result,he became violent and began hitting her in the face and abdomen. Upon examination,Ms. N's cervix is found to be 2 cm dilated and 50% effaced, she is contracting every 6minutes, and she has a small amount of vaginal bleeding. Her ultrasound findings arenormal and show no placenta previa. She is admitted to the hospital for treatment ofpreterm labor. The HCP has prescribed the following medications:• Nifedipine 30 mg PO followed by 10 mg PO every 4 hours• Betamethasone 12 mg intramuscularly (IM) every 24 hours × 2 doses6. What priority information would be important to give Ms. N about thistreatment?1. Nifedipine and betamethasone work together to help stop preterm labor.2. Nifedipine is used to prevent neonatal heart problems after birth, andbetamethasone is used to stop contractions.3. Betamethasone helps the infant's lungs to mature and helps to preventother neonatal complications if the infant is born preterm. Nifedipine usedis to reduce the contractions.4. Nifedipine is used to treat chlamydia infection, and betamethasone is usedto help the infant's lungs mature.After treatment, Ms. N's contractions stop, and there is no further cervical dilation.After 1 day of observation, Ms. N is being discharged today. Her discharge medicationsare as follows:• Prenatal vitamin 1 daily PO• Ferrous sulfate 325 mg PO 1 daily7. Which task to prepare for Ms. N's discharge could be delegated to unlicensedassistive personnel (UAP)?1. Teaching Ms. N the signs of preterm labor2. Discussing nutrition, smoking cessation, and stress reduction3. Calling the prenatal clinic to schedule the next prenatal appointment within1 week4. Calling a social worker to discuss a plan of care given the history ofdomestic violence8. A student nurse is helping the nurse prepare for Ms. N's discharge. Whichstatement made to Ms. N by the student would require the nurse to interveneand correct the information given?7061. “Iron may cause constipation.”2. “Iron should be taken daily with milk.”3. “Iron may cause darkening of the stools.”4. “Iron does not take the place of a high-iron diet, which should also befollowed.”Ms. N is now at 32 weeks’ gestation, and her pregnancy is going well. The nursemidwife has prescribed the Tdap (tetanus, diphtheria, pertussis) vaccine to beadministered today. Ms. N and her mother decline the vaccine as they would preferthat Ms. N not get a vaccine in pregnancy.9. Which is the best action by the nurse?1. Explain to the client and her mother that the vaccine can be given at anytime and that she can plan to receive it after the baby is born if she prefers.2. Explain to the client and her mother that the vaccine is optional, and if theclient does not want it, it will not be given.3. Explain to the client and her mother that the rationale for giving the vaccinein late pregnancy is to provide whooping cough immunity for the baby.4. Explain to the client that the vaccine is important and that the nursemidwife has prescribed it at this time, so it must be given today.The client recalls that she received the Tdap vaccine in the ED a few years ago afteraccidentally injuring her foot with a piece of dirty glass on the street. She wonders whyshe should get the vaccine again.10. Which response by the nurse to the client's question is best?1. Explain to the client that the vaccine in the ED would have only coveredtetanus but that the currently recommended vaccine also covers whoopingcough or pertussis.2. Explain to the client the currently recommended vaccine is indicatedspecifically to provide immunologic protection for the baby she is nowcarrying and that a vaccine given a few years ago would not deliver thesame protection to her unborn baby.3. Thank the client for providing that information and ask her if she canprovide documentation of that vaccine so that the nurse can reevaluate theneed for the current vaccine based on this information.4. Educate the client that the Tdap vaccine is needed again at this time toprovide immunologic protection to the baby so that the baby will not needto receive dangerous vaccines after he or she is born.11. The client's mother mentions that the nurse midwife told her that she should707also get the Tdap vaccine. The client's mother states she got all her childhoodvaccines, so she doesn’t need any more now. What is the best explanation thenurse can provide regarding the recommendation for the Tdap vaccine forthe client's mother?1. Explain to the mother that if all of the adults caring for the infant are alsovaccinated against whooping cough, it reduces the risk of the infantcontracting whooping cough. It is recommended that even adults whoreceived their childhood vaccines receive a Tdap vaccine.2. Advise the client's mother to check her vaccination records and that if shereceived the vaccine ever in the past, she does not need it again.3. Advise the client's mother that the rationale for the Tdap vaccine at thistime is to reduce the risk of tetanus to the newborn baby. Her childhoodvaccines would not be sufficient to provide this protection.4. Explain to the client's mother that the recommendation for the Tdapvaccine at this time is to reduce the risk of diphtheria to both herself andthe newborn baby. Her childhood vaccines are not sufficient to provide thisprotection.Ms. N's pregnancy continues uneventfully. She separates from her boyfriend andbegins counseling, which she says makes her feel stronger and calmer. She hasdecreased her smoking to 1 to 2 cigarettes/day. Her mother comes from out of state tolive with her and cooks healthy foods. She is now at 38 weeks’ gestation and calls theRN to report that she has had uterine contractions for 6 hours.12. What would be priority data for the RN to obtain before giving Ms. Nadvice by phone? Select all that apply.1. Did she take her vitamin and iron today?2. What are the frequency and intensity of the contractions?3. Is there vaginal bleeding?4. Did her water break?5. How far does Ms. N live from the hospital?13. Which response by Ms. N would prompt the RN to notify the HCP andadvise Ms. N to go straight to the hospital?1. “The contractions are extremely painful.”2. “I have vaginal bleeding that soaks about a pad an hour.”3. “I have vaginal bleeding that is mixed with a lot of mucus.”4. “My baby is moving a lot today.”Ms. N arrives at the hospital at 38 weeks’ gestation in active labor. Her membranes are708intact. Her contractions are every 3 minutes. Her mother is at the bedside assisting herwith breathing and relaxation. A vaginal examination reveals that the cervix is 5 cmdilated and 100% effaced, with the fetal head at − 1 station. Her vital sign values are asfollows:Blood pressure 140/90 mm HgHeart rate 88 beats/minRespiratory rate 24 breaths/minTemperature 98.6°F (37°C)The fetal heart rate is 140 beats/min. There is average variability. Accelerations arepresent, and no decelerations are noted14. Based on Ms. N's vital sign measurements, what are the priority questionsthat the RN should ask? Select all that apply.1. Is she having headaches?2. Is she having pain with urination?3. Is she having epigastric pain?4. Is she experiencing visual changes?5. Has her water broken?The RN takes Ms. N's blood pressure a few more times and is careful to measure it inbetween contractions. All of the subsequent blood pressure values are normal, and Ms.N is admitted to the labor and delivery unit. She chooses not to receive pain medicationat this time, and her mother continues to assist her with relaxation and breathing. Shegoes into the shower to help with the back pain she is feeling. When she comes out,there is a gush of fluid from the client, and the RN notes that the fluid is green.15. Indicate the order in which the following nursing actions should beaccomplished at this time.1. Prepare the infant bed for possible tracheal suctioning or intubation of thenewborn.2. Assess the fetal heart rate.3. Notify the HCP.4. Assess the contraction pattern and Ms. N's coping abilities._____, _____, _____, _____Ms. N is now moaning with her contractions, perspiring profusely, feeling nauseous,and experiencing an urge to push. A vaginal examination reveals that the cervix is9.5 cm dilated and 100% effaced, and the fetal head is at + 1 station.16. A student nurse is working with Ms. N. Which is an inappropriate action by709the student at this time that would require the nurse's intervention?1. Discussing with Ms. N the option of butorphanol for pain relief2. Reassuring Ms. N and her mother that these are normal reactions near theend of labor3. Applying firm pressure on Ms. N's lower back4. Encouraging Ms. N to continue breathing with her contractions and torefrain from pushing if possibleMs. N's cervix is now completely dilated, and she pushes effectively and has a normalspontaneous delivery of a 7-lb male infant. The neonatologist is present to evaluate theinfant because of the presence of meconium. The infant is initially limp and pale atbirth. His heart rate is 90 beats/min, and he is not breathing.17. Indicate the order in which the following actions should be taken with thisnewborn.1. Provide positive-pressure ventilation to the infant.2. Provide the infant warmth.3. Open the infant's airway.4. Provide tactile stimulation to the infant.5. Suction the infant's mouth and nose if excessive mucus or fluids arepresent._____, _____, _____, _____, _____The newborn responds quickly to resuscitation, and by 3 minutes of age is breathing, iscrying spontaneously, and has good color and tone. The neonatologist leaves, and theRN continues to assess the newborn.18. Which finding would prompt the RN to call the neonatologist back toevaluate the infant further?1. Cyanosis of the hands and feet2. Heart rate of 160 beats/min3. Respiratory rate of 55 breaths/min4. Central cyanosis19. Indicate the order in which the following nursing actions should beperformed in the immediate care of a healthy normal newborn in the deliveryroom.1. Place identification bracelets on the mother and infant.2. Administer vitamin K to the infant.7103. Assess the infant's airway and breathing.4. Perform bulb suctioning if excessive mucus is present.5. Assess the infant's heart rate._____, _____, _____, _____, _____20. Ms. N plans to breast feed her infant. What evidence-based actions shouldthe RN take in the delivery room to enhance the success of breast feeding?Select all that apply.1. Place the infant on the warming bed until his temperature is stable; thenbring the infant to the mother and assist in breast feeding.2. Place the infant skin to skin with the mother as soon as possible after birth.3. Assist the mother to breast feed in the first hour of life.4. Allow the mother to rest and give a first feeding of sterile water to assessinfant sucking and swallowing; then assist with breast feeding at the nextfeed.5. Instruct Ms. N to breast feed for 5 minutes on each side.21. After the placenta is delivered, Ms. N is noted to be bleeding profusely.Oxytocin 20 units in 1000 mL of lactated Ringer's solution is infusing. TheHCP also prescribes carboprost 250 mcg IM. Which finding would be arelative contraindication to administering carboprost?1. Temperature of 101°F (38.3°C)2. Blood pressure of 148/96 mm Hg3. History of asthma4. Allergy to penicillin22. Which nursing actions are most important at this time to prevent furtherhemorrhage? Select all that apply.1. Monitor vital signs.2. Assess and massage the uterine fundus every 15 minutes.3. Ensure that the maternal bladder is emptied.4. Assist Ms. N into a left lateral position.5. Provide a lunch tray with high-iron foods.23. The nurse is preparing to transfer Ms. N to the postpartum unit. Whichstatement by the client is most indicative of a need for further assessmentbefore transfer?1. “My nipples are very sore.”2. “I feel something gushing.”3. “I feel dizzy if I walk.”4. “I have bad cramping in my abdomen.”24. The RN receiving Ms. N on the postpartum unit is aware of her postpartumhemorrhage. What would be the first clinical sign of hypovolemia related to711postpartum hemorrhage?1. Hypotension2. Tachycardia3. Mental status changes4. Decreased urine outputMs. N is now day #2 postpartum. Her vital signs are temperature, 103°F (39.4°C);pulse, 100 beats/min; respirations, 20 breaths/min. Her physical examination findingsare breasts filling, nontender; nipples intact. Abdominal examination revealstenderness with palpation of the uterine fundus. She has a slight cough. The HCP hasordered a chest x-ray examination, which was done, and results are negative, and aurine culture, which is in progress. The HCP has placed orders for clindamycin900 mg IV every 8 hours and gentamycin 80 mg every 8 hours. The presumptivediagnosis is endometritis.25. Which statements to the client by the student nurse working with Ms. Ntoday would require the nurse to intervene and correct the information givento the client? Select all that apply.1. Endometritis is an infection of the uterus.2. The reason for the antibiotics is to kill the bacteria causing the infection.3. Because of your fever, the baby will need to be moved to the nursery.4. The baby will be fed formula while away from you.5. The antibiotics that you are receiving are not recommended during breastfeeding.26. What signs and symptoms related to endometritis should the nursemonitor? Select all that apply.1. The client's temperature2. The amount of vaginal bleeding3. Feelings of hopelessness4. The presence of erythema on the breasts5. Tenderness on palpation of the uterine fundusMs. N is now doing well and is preparing for discharge with her infant. Her dischargeorders are for prenatal vitamins and iron and to make a follow-up appointment in 4 to6 weeks with her provider.27. What part of the discharge process could be appropriately delegated to theUAP working with the nurse today?1. Teaching the client the signs of postpartum depression7122. Teaching the client the signs of dehydration in the newborn3. Ordering a breast pump for the client4. Doing the final physical assessment of the client before dischargeMs. N has now brought her breast-fed newborn to the pediatric clinic for newbornfollow-up with the nurse. He is 5 days old.28. Which finding will be most important for the pediatric nurse to report to thepediatric provider?1. The baby's umbilical cord stump is still attached.2. The baby's stools are unformed and yellow.3. The baby has lost 5% of his birth weight.4. The baby had two wet diapers yesterday.29. The nursing student who has two children of her own whom she breast fedis assigned to provide further education to the client about breast feeding.What information given by the nursing student would require the nurse tointervene?1. “Breast feeding helps to prevent infections in the infant.”2. “Breast-fed babies are less likely to develop allergies.”3. “When I breast fed, I felt tired a lot. Have you noted this?”4. “When I breast fed, my babies gained weight from the beginning and werenever sick.”Ms. N is now at her 6-week follow-up visit. The nurse is interviewing her and learnsthat she is breast feeding successfully and has a new sexual partner who she describesas a great guy who is helpful to her and her baby. She would like to discuss birthcontrol.30. Which of the following is a concern when considering oral contraceptives(OCs) for Ms. N? Select all that apply.1. OCs need to be taken at the same time daily.2. Lactation could be affected by use of OCs.3. Ms. N is also taking an iron supplement.4. Ms. N got pregnant while taking OCs in the past.5. Ms. N's new partner is a smoker.Ms. N decides that she would like to use the subdermal hormonal contraceptive implant713etonogestrel 68 mg. She is happy to learn that it lasts for 3 years.31. Which statement by the nursing student giving instruction to Ms. N aboutthe contraceptive implant is incorrect and would require the nurse tointervene to correct the information?1. “It does not prevent sexually transmitted infections, so condoms shouldalso be used.”2. “It is compatible with breast feeding.”3. “Irregular vaginal bleeding is common with this method.”4. “It is associated with an increased risk of infertility for 5 years afterremoval.”32. Ms. N states that her new sexual partner is bisexual and also has male sexualpartners. What would be priority information for the nurse to give to Ms. Ntoday?1. Explain that multiple sexual partners increases the risk for sexuallytransmitted diseases (STDs); offer full STD testing and counsel on safersexual practices.2. Advise her that she should stop seeing her partner because of hisdangerous sexual practices.3. Inform her of where she can get free condoms.4. Explore her feelings about her partner's bisexuality and infidelity and howit will affect her and her child.714Answer Key1. Ans: 1, 2, 3, 4 Ms. N began prenatal care late at 24 weeks. She needs to knowthe danger signs and how to contact her provider if they occur. She should beoffered assistance with smoking cessation because smoking is a known riskfactor for prematurity, low infant birth weight, perinatal infant death, andsudden infant death syndrome. Undertaking interventions now can help thepregnant woman to quit or reduce smoking and impact outcomes. Educatingin the basics of nutrition is also a high priority because Ms. N is 24 weekspregnant, admits to a poor diet, and has gained excess weight in herpregnancy. Getting a flu shot in flu season is recommended for pregnantwomen. Pain relief would not be considered a priority topic because the clientis only at 24 weeks’ gestation and has higher priority issues to address at thistime; pain relief education can be addressed later. Focus: Prioritization.2. Ans: 1 Chlamydia infection is associated with preterm labor and birth andwith neonatal infection and thus should be treated in pregnancy.Azithromycin is safe in pregnancy and is effective in curing chlamydiainfection. Focus: Prioritization.3. Ans: 2 Stress has been linked to preterm delivery and low birth weight ofinfants and should be addressed by the nurse as a serious risk factor. A 3-hour glucose tolerance test requires fasting even in pregnancy. Colposcopy isa procedure for assessing the cervix; it does not treat HPV infection. Thepresence of HPV is not an indication for cesarean section. Focus:Prioritization.4. Ans: 3, 2, 1, 4 Using the SBAR format, the nurse first indicates the currentclient situation that requires intervention. The nurse then provides pertinentbackground information about the client. Next, the current pertinentassessment data and analysis of the client's problem are communicated.Finally, the nurse makes a recommendation for needed actions. Focus:Prioritization.5. Ans: 4, 1, 3, 2, 5 This ordering is based on client and staff safety. The agitatedand angry man is a safety threat to the client and possibly to the staff, anddealing with him needs to be the first priority. The woman's report ofbleeding and cramping are a safety threat to the fetus and so must beassessed quickly by measuring vital signs and applying a fetal monitor. TheHCP should be notified so that an examination can be performed promptly.After the immediate safety of the mother and fetus are ensured, it would beappropriate to obtain a more thorough history. A social work consult wouldbe indicated but should be deferred until assessment is complete. Focus:Prioritization.6. Ans: 3 Betamethasone administration is an evidence-based intervention thathas been shown to decrease many neonatal complications such as respiratory715distress, neonatal death, necrotizing enterocolitis, and cerebral vascularhemorrhage in the case of preterm delivery. This practice supports thePerinatal Core Measure of increasing the percentage of women at risk ofpreterm delivery who are given antenatal steroids. Nifedipine is used in thissituation as a tocolytic to reduce uterine contractions. Focus: Prioritization;Test Taking Tip: You must be familiar with Core Measures that are related tovarious practice areas. For additional information, see The JointCommission's website:https://www.jointcommission.org/core_measure_sets.aspx.7. Ans: 3 Scheduling a follow-up appointment is within the scope of practice ofa UAP. Options 1 and 2 are important client education tasks that the RN mustperform. Option 4 requires professional collaboration between the RN andthe social worker. Focus: Delegation.8. Ans: 2 Ferrous sulfate should be taken with water or juice. Milk can slow theabsorption of iron. The other statements are appropriate. Focus: Supervision.9. Ans: 3 The question asks how the nurse can help the client understand therationale for the timing of the vaccine. Option 1 provides inaccurateinformation. Options 2 and 4 do not offer education to help the clientunderstand the rationale for the timing of the vaccine. The nurse shouldalways consult the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for the mostcurrent vaccine recommendations as these recommendations may changeover time. Focus: Prioritization.10. Ans: 2 Option 2 correctly and clearly provides the rationale for repeating thevaccine at this time. Options 1 and 3 focus on the specifics of the vaccinereceived a few years ago. These specifics would not change therecommendation for the Tdap vaccine in pregnancy and so are not priorityinformation. Option 4 states that infant vaccines are dangerous, which isinappropriate information. Focus: Prioritization.11. Ans: 1 Option 1 correctly and clearly summarizes the rationale forvaccination of the client's mother. Option 2 is not consistent with currentvaccine recommendations. Options 3 and 4 place the focus on the tetanus anddiphtheria components of the vaccine, which are not the primary goal of theTdap vaccine for adults who will be caring for newborn infants. Focus:Prioritization.12. Ans: 2, 3, 4, 5 These are all necessary data for the RN to have beforerecommending that the client either wait at home or come to the hospital. TheRN must consider the client's history; current symptoms; and practicalmatters such as distance to the hospital, available transportation, and trafficconditions before giving guidance. Whether the client took her vitamin andiron today would not be priority information at this time. Focus:Prioritization.13. Ans: 2 Options 1, 3, and 4 do not represent abnormal conditions in labor.Option 2, however, indicates more bleeding than normal in labor. It could be716a sign of placental abruption or placenta previa and should be evaluatedpromptly. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: By becoming familiar withthe stages of labor and the normal clinical findings in each stage, you canthen identify a symptom or finding that is clearly abnormal.14. Ans: 1, 3, 4 The elevated blood pressure should prompt the RN to askquestions regarding symptoms of preeclampsia. The symptoms in Options 1,3, and 4 are characteristic of preeclampsia. Those in Options 2 and 5 are not.Focus: Prioritization.15. Ans: 2, 3, 1, 4 After rupture of the membranes, it is a priority to assess fetalheart tones because the intrauterine contents shift, and there may becompression or prolapse of the umbilical cord. The presence of meconium inthe fluid may indicate fetal hypoxia and thus also indicates the need forassessment of fetal heart tones. After heart tones are assessed, the HCPshould be notified of the presence of meconium in the fluid. The infant bedshould be prepared in anticipation of a possible need for suctioning orintubation of the neonate at delivery because of the presence of meconium.Finally, Ms. N should be assessed to determine what the contraction patternis and how she is coping because the contractions may become more intenseafter rupture of the membranes. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Theprioritization is based on client safety and requires you to know theimplications of meconium-stained fluid and to anticipate changes in the planof care because of it.16. Ans: 1 Because Ms. N's labor is progressing rapidly and she is nearingdelivery, an opioid would not be an optimal choice at this time. Althoughbutorphanol is associated with less respiratory depression than other opioids,if it is given close to delivery, it can cause respiratory depression in theneonate at birth. This medication would be more appropriately used earlierin labor if desired. The other choices are appropriate nursing actions for thepain and distress of this stage of labor. Focus: Supervision.17. Ans: 2, 3, 5, 4, 1 The American Academy of Pediatrics and the AmericanHeart Association publish guidelines for neonatal resuscitation that areupdated regularly. The first action with this newborn is to move him to aprewarmed table in the delivery room. Provision of warmth avoids the addedchallenge of cold stress for the newborn. The airway is opened by placing theinfant in a supine position with the head very slightly extended. The mouthand nose can be gently suctioned if excessive fluids or mucus are present.After suction, the infant is stimulated by gently slapping the soles of the feet,rubbing the back, or both. If the infant remains apneic or with a heart rate lessthan 100 beats/min, positive-pressure ventilation with bag and mask isinitiated. The steps of resuscitation should be done rapidly and in the correctorder. All resuscitation equipment should be prepared for each delivery incase of need. Gloves should be worn and all equipment should be clean orsterile as indicated to support the Perinatal Core Measure of reducing healthcare–associated bloodstream infections in newborns. Focus: Prioritization.71718. Ans: 4 The heart rate and respiratory rate and findings of peripheralcyanosis are normal in the first hour of life. Central cyanosis, however, maysuggest a cardiac or respiratory abnormality and must be evaluated. Focus:Prioritization.19. Ans: 3, 4, 5, 1, 2 The first assessment is of the airway and respirations. Next,suctioning is performed if indicated. The heart rate is then assessed.Placement of identification bands is important for newborn security, butassessing and ensuring the physical stability of the infant in a systematic wayis the first priority. IM administration of vitamin K is recommended for thenewborn, but this can be done after the initial assessments and properidentification of the newborn. Focus: Prioritization; Test Taking Tip: Youshould keep in mind the basic ABCs (airway, breathing, circulation) as thecritical priority components of newborn assessment and care at birth. Afterthese are assessed and any necessary resuscitation done, the other tasks canbe completed.20. Ans: 2, 3 Early skin-to-skin contact and early breast feeding are associatedwith breast-feeding success. This supports the Perinatal Core Measure ofincreasing the percentage of newborns who are fed breast milk only. It is notrecommended to give sterile water to a breast-feeding infant or to limitnursing time. Focus: Prioritization.21. Ans: 3 Asthma is a relative contraindication to the use of carboprost becauseof its potential to cause bronchospasm. There are other appropriate drugs forpostpartum hemorrhage that can be used in place of carboprost, such asmisoprostol. Focus: Prioritization.22. Ans: 2, 3 Assessing and massaging the uterine fundus help to preventfurther hemorrhage by contracting the uterus firmly, which decreases therapid blood loss present with uterine atony. If the maternal bladder is full, itcan prevent effective contraction of the uterus, leading to uterine atony andcontinued blood loss. The nurse should encourage the mother to voidfrequently, and if she is unable to do so, bladder catheterization would beindicated. Checking vital signs and providing a high-iron diet are appropriatebut do not stop the bleeding. Maternal position is unrelated to hemorrhage.Focus: Prioritization.23. Ans: 2 The statement that something is “gushing” would prompt the RN toassess immediately for further postpartum hemorrhage. The other reportedsymptoms are nonemergent and can be evaluated on the postpartum unit.Focus: Prioritization.24. Ans: 2 Tachycardia is an early sign of possible hypovolemia fromhemorrhage. Hypotension, mental status changes, and decreased urineoutput are later signs. The relative hypervolemia in pregnancy allows themother to tolerate normal blood loss at delivery with relatively little changein vital signs. The RN must be alert to early signs of hypovolemia and assesspromptly for excessive blood loss. Focus: Prioritization.71825. Ans: 3, 4, 5 The student nurse is correct in explaining endometritis and therationale for antibiotics. It is not recommended that an infant be separatedfrom the mother with the diagnosis of endometritis because it is notcommunicable to the baby with normal contact. Breast feeding is consideredacceptable with both clindamycin and gentamycin. Changes to the intestinalflora of the nursing infant can occur, though, so the infant should bemonitored for diarrhea and other gastrointestinal symptoms. The studentnurse should also be praised for thinking of the effects of medications on thenursing infant but instructed to always consult an evidence-based source andconsult with the nurse before giving advice that could jeopardize the successof breast feeding. Focus: Assignment.26. Ans: 1, 2, 5 Resolution of the client's fever would be an indication that theantibiotic treatment of endometritis is effective. The amount of vaginalbleeding should be monitored carefully because if the uterus is infected as inendometritis, it may not contract effectively and therefore may allowincreased vaginal bleeding. Tenderness with palpation of the uterine fundusis a sign of endometritis and will resolve with successful treatment. Theoption of hopelessness relates more to emotional status. Erythema of thebreasts may be a sign of mastitis but is not related to endometritis. Focus:Prioritization.27. Ans: 3 The UAP could order the breast pump for the client. Options 1 and 2involve teaching the client, and although the UAP can always assist withgiving information to clients, the nurse remains responsible for the teachingprocess, which involves assessing a client's readiness to learn, obstacles tolearning, delivery of information, and demonstration of client understandingof the teaching. Option 4 is the final assessment before discharge and shouldbe done by the nurse to be sure that discharge is safe and appropriate for thisclient at this time. Focus: Delegation.28. Ans: 4 A newborn at 4 to 5 days of life should have at least six wetdiapers/day. The mother's report of only two should be explored. It could bethat the mother is not noting small voids in very absorbent diapers, or itcould be a sign of inadequate intake. Option 1 is a normal finding as theumbilical cord usually falls off at 7 to 14 days. Option 2 represents normalstool of a breast-fed infant. Option 3 is a finding of weight loss within thenormal range for age. Birth weight should be regained by 7 to 14 days of life.Focus: Prioritization.29. Ans: 4 Options 1 and 2 are correct facts about breast feeding that mayencourage the mother to see the benefits of breast feeding. Option 3 sharessome personal information but with the focus of encouraging the mother todiscuss the possible challenges she may be having with breast feeding.Option 4 shares personal information without putting the focus on the client.The statement also sets up the client for feelings of inadequacy because herbaby lost some weight. An appropriate action would be for the nurse toprivately speak with the student about how to use personal experiences in a719therapeutic way but to always keep the focus on the client and her well-beingas well as the goals of education and support. The student could then returnto the client and clarify the normal weight changes in the client's infant.Focus: Assignment, Supervision.30. Ans: 1, 2, 4 Options 1 and 4 address the concern that OCs are a highlyreliable method only if the user is highly reliable in the way she takes the pill.Most pregnancies that occur on the pill are due to user error. Ms. N now hasa busy life with a new baby. The nurse would need to explore with the clientif she believes she could be a reliable pill user at this time. Option 2 refers tothe estrogen component of the OCs, which can reduce the milk supply. Thereis, however, a progestin-only OC that is more appropriate for the lactatingwoman. Options 3 and 5 would not affect Ms. N's use of an OC. Focus:Prioritization.31. Ans: 4 Options 1, 2, and 3 are accurate information regarding the implantand provide useful and important information to the client. Option 4 is aninaccurate statement about this contraceptive. After removal of the implant,the serum level of etonogestrel is often undetectable by 7 days. Pregnancieshave been known to occur seven to 14 days after removal. The nurse mustensure that the client does not leave the clinic with the idea that the device isassociated with this complication because this may undermine her ability tochoose a highly effective method. The nurse can take the student aside andexplain the correct information and then return to the client together andcorrect the information clearly. Focus: Prioritization.32. Ans: 1 Option 1 is the priority information for Ms. N. It clearly delineatesthe risks that she has and offers her appropriate testing and informationabout prevention of STDs. Option 2 is directive and does not acknowledgethat Ms. N is happy in her relationship at this time. Option 3 is appropriateinformation but does not also include the education component, which isvital. Option 4 is appropriate discussion content for the nurse and client but isnot the priority information that the nurse must communicate to the client atthis time. Focus: Prioritization.720Illustration Credits721Chapter 115. From Gray Morris D: Calculate with confidence, ed 6, St. Louis, 2014, Mosby.722Chapter 223. From Ignatavicius D, Workman ML: Medical-surgical nursing, ed 8, St. Louis,2016, Elsevier.723Chapter 728. From Ignatavicius D, Workman ML: Medical-surgical nursing, ed 8, St. Louis,2016, Elsevier.37. From Mulholland JL, Turner S: The nurse, the math, the meds: drugcalculations using dimensional analysis, ed 3, St. Louis, 2015, Mosby.724Chapter 1023. From Ignatavicius D, Workman ML: Medical-surgical nursing, ed 8, St. Louis,2016, Elsevier.725Chapter 1132. From Ignatavicius D, Workman ML: Medical-surgical nursing, ed 8, St. Louis,2016, Elsevier.726Chapter 1242. From deWit SC, O’Neill P: Fundamental concepts and skills for nursing, ed 4, St.Louis, 2013, Saunders.727Chapter 1331. From Ignatavicius D, Workman ML: Medical-surgical nursing, ed 8, St. Louis,2016, Elsevier.728Chapter 1433. From Ignatavicius D, Workman ML: Medical-surgical nursing, ed 8, St. Louis,2016, Elsevier.729Chapter 1523. From Ogden SJ, Fluharty L: Calculation of drug dosages: a work text, ed 10, St.Louis, 2016, Elsevier.730Chapter 193. From Wong-Baker FACES Foundation: Wong-Baker FACES® Pain RatingScale, 2016, retrieved March 3, 2017, with permission fromhttp://www.WongBakerFACES.org. Originally published in Whaley & Wong’sNursing Care of Infants and Children. © Elsevier Inc.731Chapter 2142. From Aehlert B: EKGs made easy, ed 2, St. Louis, 2002, Mosby.732Case Study 518. From Lewis SL, Bucher L, McLean Heitkemper M, Harding MM: Medicalsurgicalnursing, ed 10, St. Louis, 2017, Elsevier.733Case Study 133. From Ignatavicius D, Workman ML: Medical-surgical nursing, ed 8, St. Louis,2016, Elsevier.734Case Study 144. From Ignatavicius D, Workman ML: Medical-surgical nursing, ed 8, St. Louis,2016, Elsevier.735